Next, you'll be completing a peer reviewed
assignment in which you'll create a clickable prototype of the pathway
you outlined in last week's assignment. You may remember from our last design
critique how important this skill is as a user interface or
user experience designer. This peer reviewed assignment
provides a way for you to continue practicing design critique
by both giving and receiving feedback. We'll look at a few example prototype
submissions from students who previously completed this course. I'll walk us through a brief design
critique where I'll point out some effective design choices and
discuss some things to avoid for an effective prototype. The first prototype we'll
look at is Sportify. My first impression is a clean,
simple, sports or exercise focused app that starts
me out by creating an account. The steps are made intuitive by
the clear labeling, spacing, and sequencing of the fields that take me
through the sign up and login process. On the landing page the size and
selection of icons makes them distinct and informative, though it's
not clear why the boxing gloves have an orange background that's so
similar to the app logo. When I select the boxing gloves,
I get more details. The text here is easily readable,
though the contrast could be improved. When I click on the menu to
advance through the pathway, I notice that the color
of the menu changes for no apparent reason,
which can undermine cohesiveness. The search layout is straightforward and
uses familiar elements and labeling. Continuing through this sequence,
I noticed that the transitions between screens detract from
the perception of this being a real app. Dissolves would have been a better choice. Looking at another prototype, my first impression here is of a simple
login screen that's crisp and friendly. Though I'm not really
sure what the app does. I now appear to be on a search screen. The graphic here is interesting,
but it's not particularly helpful at communicating what the user should be
doing here, and it seems pretty large. The labels on the icons at
the bottom make their purpose clear, though the items at the top appear too
similar to each other and lack labels, undermining the user's ability to
intuitively know what they might do. Moving forward,
the search results are quite readable and the white background here
really helps the placement, and the green color of the add button also
helps the user know what to do next. Continuing to see albums, this screen
appears quite cluttered and confusing. It would benefit from a more thoughtful
and intentional information architecture. This prototype would also be
better if the interactions and transitions were smoother,
making it feel more like a real app. Going through a final example, my first
impression here is quite positive. The screen communicates a freshness
that's supported by the effective use of color and logo design,
all with a clear information hierarchy. The get started button draws the eye and really guides the user
forward into the app. It follows conventions like providing
the ability to use Facebook or Google to sign in. This prototype leverages realistic
imagery and content that also seems real. This goes a long way toward providing an overall experience that's
both engaging and believable. The flow through the app follows
a conventional user journey from selecting a food item, to viewing the details,
to adding the selected item to the cart, and then reviewing the purchase and
going through and completing the checkout, to finally seeing a confirmation and then
offering the option to track the order. The app also benefits from the design
choices of consistent button placement and including only the details that
are necessary to the user for each step along the way. Now that you've seen a variety
of prototype examples, it's your turn to take what you've learned
and bring it all together into a prototype that delivers an experience that's
engaging and complete for your users.