So let's take one final look at the Art School Project Archive website and look specifically how the clickable prototype works in Figma. Here it is. You can see I can click around. Figma has this helpful visual tip that when you click anywhere that is not a link, it highlights the links that are actually active. So you can see there's the navigation and the sub navigation here and the search are clickable. And here too on the project landing page, one of the projects is clickable. We didn't build out more than one detail page. We can click on this here. This is the project detail page. Since we only have one, that's why it links only one here. And we don't need to build out the four other ones or the five other ones, because once we build one, we kind of knew how they all will look. So a prototype is really there for you to understand what this project is all about, how it will function, how it will look, and you do as much as necessary and not necessarily more. So again, in this case, we have one detail page for the projects and we have one detail page for the artists right here. The other ones aren't built out. So let's look at Figma, the working file here and see how this is all constructed. And the first thing I want to point out is the header. If I zoom in on one of these pages here, I can see that this header is, if you look over here in the layers, this diamond symbol shows us that this is an instant of a component. I can, through this function here on the top right, select matching layers, select all the instances of this component. You see that every page has this component embedded because they all share the navigation. If I go to one of these and click on main component, go to main component, I go to this area of my file where I placed all my components. So these are the main components. There's one for the headers, one for the search field, one the secondary menu, and one for the navigation. The navigation indeed, if I double click here, the navigation component is embedded into the header components. The nice thing about components is that you can update them after the fact and it'll trickle through to all the instances that are used throughout the file. As an example here, if I deleted something from the header, then now the logo is missing on all these pages because it automatically updates. That's not what we want to do, so I'll undo what I did and the logo's back. Let me tell you something else about the navigation. You see that this is a little bit differently constructed. It has four variants. Variants is an interesting feature of Figma where you can create different variations of a certain component. In this case, the variation is which link is currently highlighted and there are four variations here. We can actually look at them here. Home can be highlighted, products, artists, or none of them. How does that work when we use a component here? Well, let's say on this particular page I wanted to change which link is highlighted. I can double click in here and then make the active link home. You can see how it chooses a different variant which then makes it seem or which then highlights the link that you chose. This is a very efficient way of working with components. Now let's take a look at the prototype tab and you'll notice these spaghetti strings. Let's call them these blue lines that go crisscross throughout the file showing us which elements are clickable and what happens when those elements are clicked. Where do they go? As an example here, this element when clicked navigates to this screen right here, the artist detail screen. That's how in Figma you're able to create these clickable prototypes that you can actually click on elements and something happens like it would on the actual website. Here is an example of a simple on-click navigate to another page. Let's look at something more complicated in the navigation. There are two elements, the search and the secondary menu that use an open overlay action. Just to remind you, if I click on the search field it shows up. If I click outside of it it goes away. Same with the secondary menu. Here you don't go to another page, you just show up an element as an overlay and that's facilitated through this open overlay action for the search. Here you can see it open overlay search on click and here for the secondary menu. Then let's look at another instance of interactivity here. I'll show you in the prototype first. If I hover over the artist name on the artist landing page we get this hover effect. Now this has been constructed in this case fairly simply in a not very sophisticated way. All we did was duplicate this entire page here to this one and then change what needed changing. In this case the name is changed in color and the image is no longer black and white but also color. Here it is black and white. Is that the most sophisticated way? No. Figma allows us to do something less crude. Here again we're duplicating an entire page. Imagine wanting to make all these names hoverable. That would be insane to keep duplicating this page to exchange every single name. You would also have to work with components and variants. There's a way to do that although it would be fairly tricky to get the image also to change color. We didn't want to even deal with that because going back to this is not a website that a user will see. This is just for us to figure out what the hover state looks like. We figured it out. The color changes. The image changes the color. Done. Moving on. A fairly crude way of mocking this up worked just fine in this instance. It's okay to keep it simple if your idea is properly communicated. The same thing is happening with the filters here. I can filter quote-unquote filter. It's fake but it shows us there's less names. Something's highlighted here. There's a new button called clear filters. It shows us how the interface reacts to a filter being chosen. There's nothing to be gained to make every single filter here working in our prototype. It just creates extra work for the client, for yourself, and the developer. This is enough information to move forward. Then lastly let's look at the home page. Here again we kind of cut a corner because it would have been difficult to achieve in Figma the two lines under the name. The one here that says MFA 2020 and art. We wanted to or we imagined that they would be marquee text so it's text that scrolls from right to left. Indeed on the final website that's actually what's happening. It's not happening in the prototype because it's kind of hard to do in Figma. We had enough confidence that we didn't necessarily need to see it at this point. We can figure that out when working with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript later on. What we do have though is this slideshow. Every four seconds another artist shows up. There's three of them and the way that is facilitated in the working Figma file is via this function called after a delay go to another screen. This screen called home one after four thousand milliseconds four seconds it navigates to home two and home two does the same thing of going to home three and home three goes back to home one and that's how you have this never-ending cycle of transitions between these three screens and it nicely indicates how we wanted the home page to feel. Okay let's quickly take a look at the mobile prototype. Here are our screens and we can look at this mobile flow starting point that we have in the working file by clicking on this and we can do one more thing to make this feel a little bit more realistic by choosing a device. Our mobile screens are 320 pixels wide so let's use a device with those dimensions which is the iPhone SE here and we can even choose a different color let's choose something a little less bright space gray so now we can see this mobile design in the context of a device which actually helps us a little bit to think about how the scale works here and decides relationships of a smaller screen and again here we can click around look at the search look at the filters the filters work a little bit differently on mobile and look at a detail page for the project and also look at the artist detail page and you can kind of tell here that compared to the desktop view there's less screens but again you do as many as necessary to communicate everything that you need to communicate for the client and the developer and yourself and that kind of depends on every project and individual preferences of course as well in this case these are the screens that we deemed necessary to to know what this website will look like on mobile and then everything else happened during the coding phase