If you have a graphic design background, the visual design phase will allow you to employ all your knowledge about composition, color, typography, image making, and visual metaphors. In this week's lectures, I will review a few fundamental concepts and I will talk about some specific instances where design for the web differs from traditional graphic design. First, it is helpful to remind ourselves of basic design principles. These are as important for web designers as they are for any other visual designers. I believe that one fundamental task of a designer is to create hierarchy, meaning to create order. When we design, we start with a bunch of stuff, text and images mainly, and we arrange these in a way so other people can make sense of the information. Hierarchy enables us to guide a viewer's attention to the most important elements on the page or the screen. Want to see what happens without much visual hierarchy? Well, take any website out there and in the Firefox browser, you can easily turn off the CSS styles. Here's the homepage of the Substance website. Let me turn off the styles. All the information is still accessible, the text, the images, the links, but without the visual design, it's not only harder to make sense of, it's also a lot less pleasurable to look at. I would go as far as calling this unstyled page ugly, and ugly is an impediment to usability. Let's turn the styles back on. Okay, better. So how is hierarchy created? It's created via contrasts. Our brains are wired to recognize visual differences. A lawn, for example, is made up of millions of small green blades of grass. Our eyes can't really focus on anything in particular. Not until someone builds a wall, that is, or a squirrel appears. These contrasting shapes, textures, and colors are very easy for us to notice. Now, there are a few ways that visual contrasts can be created by changing scale, weight, direction, form, texture, space, value, or color. When I started studying design at CalArts, I spent an entire semester just exploring these contrasts in ever more complex composition studies. Let me explain each of these contrasts quickly, and then we'll also look at examples of how contrasts work on websites in the real world. What I want to stress is that if you find yourself struggling with a composition or are struggling with a layout, think about this list of contrasts and see if one of them can be of help. The contrast of scale is simply a difference between sizes. If you have a bunch of small elements and one big element, the bigger element will stand out. Weight is a bit similar to scale, but instead of changing an element's size, the visual weight, how heavy it appears, changes. Think about bolding one word in a list. That word practically jumps off the page to draw our attention. Then we have the contrast in direction. In this example, you see one line perpendicular to the others. Our eye is almost unwillingly drawn to the imaginary area where the lines would intersect. The contrast of form describes differences of angular and round shapes. Quite strikingly, in this example, we notice the lone circle right away because its shape is different from the others. Differences in texture also creates contrast. Think about texture in this way. If you could touch it, what would it feel like? Would it be smooth like the black field on the right? Or would it be rough like the pattern on the left? Contrast of space describes the illusion of some object to appear closer to us than others. Contrast of value is all about lightness or darkness of a color tone. The lighter square here stands out. Or we can make a darker square the focus by reversing the values. And lastly, color contrast is created via changes in hue or saturation. Here, clearly, the red square has our attention since it's the one element that is different.