Let's look at another example of how even small amounts of white space helps us create better designs and a better user experience. Consider the simple form that includes two form fields and a button. Now, is this a visually pleasing and inviting form? I'd argue that it isn't. Everything is too tight and the feeling I get from it is one of anxiety. And most of the time, anxious is not what we want our users to feel, right? We can fix a lot of problems here by simply increasing the space between the elements and by giving the box around the form more padding, meaning more white space. What a relief. It's almost like being able to breathe again after unbuttoning a too tight shirt. What else? The text inside the signup button could also use more white space. There, much better. And the form fields too. Typing something into them right now would feel really claustrophobic because the fields are too small. Making them taller solves the problem. And now let's implement a few quick changes that aren't related to white space but will make our form look even better. We can lose the colons after the labels since they are unnecessary and just add visual noise. And also, let's change the button typography from all caps into title case. That looks much friendlier. And then let's remove the outline around the box. Much cleaner now. But let's add one thick blue line back to just the top of the box to create some visual weight balancing the button below. And let's lighten the background a little bit to make everything feel even lighter. The outlines around the form fields don't need to be so prominent either. Let's make those lighter. And I'll also give the button rounded corners so that it feels different from the form fields. Finally, come to think of it, I still think the form elements are a little too close to the edge of the box. Let's add a little more space. So, now we have a pretty nice form and it's quite a bit different from what we started with. Of course, this is only one aesthetic approach we can take. The identity of the website we are designing will dictate what typefaces, colors, corner radiuses, and border styles make sense. How would this form look if it was designed for a Figma conference, for example? Maybe like this, heavier borders, bolder colors. Or what about designing it for the MailChimp website? Here, a simpler color palette with a lot of black and yellow. Let's take all this one step further though, which also gives me the opportunity to talk about making more rational design decisions. When I designed this form, I didn't simply eyeball the spacing between the elements, like the space between the top of the box and the first form fields, or the space between two fields. I was actually being systematic about those dimensions. Let's go to the Figma file where the form was created. Let's turn on layout grids so we can see a layout grid that I created inside the form box. The grid is based on 16 pixels, meaning that each column in this grid is 16 pixels wide and each row is 16 pixels tall. And see how all elements start and end on the grid? There is an inherent rationality here. If we consider each 16-pixel increment to be one unit, then the black rule on top is one unit tall. The next space is three units. The form fields are four units tall. The spaces between the elements are two units, and the signup button is three units. What we get here are measurements that have an inherent relationship to each other. The tension of sameness and difference of the vertical spaces creates an interesting and pleasing rhythm between the design elements, and it helps in making the form visually beautiful. Some skeptics out there might be saying, I don't know if beautiful design is all that important, as long as that form works, who cares? Well, it turns out that a crucial concept in design is the aesthetic usability effect. This principle suggests that users often perceive aesthetically pleasing design as being more usable. An attractive design can create a positive response in users' minds, leading them to believe that the design functions better, even if it has minor usability issues. You can read about the aesthetic usability effect at the wonderful website, The Laws of UX. And while you're there, also look at some of the other laws the site showcases.