And by the way, your backgrounds, I mean, you seem to be still in the same room. I'm so glad you said that. I'm so glad you said that. My baby boy's got the other room, so I moved everything. And I wanted the same feeling. All right, I am here with Rob Hobe. Hey, Rob, how are you doing? I am doing great, Roman. Thank you for having me. Thank you for having me back on. We are going to continue our conversation that we started in 2018, six long years ago. And we'll again talk about design trends. And thanks for making time for this. I know you're really, really busy, and we'll get to that, what you're busy with. But I think you have a baby boy. Is that the first one? Or the second one? Yeah, it's the first one. I am learning how to be a good dad while trying to juggle being creative online. So I work a lot at night. Any new parents out there know exactly what I'm talking about. You don't know what you're going to get. So you just got to work when you can, whatever window the day gives you. Well, I really am appreciative that you made the time. Let me introduce you real quickly. You are a web designer and web developer. Although lately, I would say you're maybe more of a critic, journalist, educator. Maybe you've shifted. I don't know. You're still building. Is that still a thing? Building sites for my own projects. So definitely still building, but no more clients at the moment. You live in South Africa. You run a showcase website called OnePageLove. And this has now been going on for two decades, I believe. Is that right? Yeah. 16 years. 16. Okay. Since 2008. And you have this wonderful podcast called Yeo, where you interview designers, developers, and entrepreneurs. That comes out about once a month? So it has been once a month, but it's seasonal. So right now we're just wrapping up season three, then I'm going to take a good break. But yeah, that's my creative outlet, Yeo, where I'm just interviewing all my heroes online and trying to have fun with the video edits. Yeah. And, you know, you do games and it's very loose and fun. I appreciate that. Is there... You have a course coming up on landing pages. We'll talk about that in the end. Is there anything else I left on? No, just a Cape Town based person trying to connect with people across the world. Nice. Wonderful. So when we last talked in 2018, we talked about historical and emerging design trends. And back then we talked about things like texture that kind of came in and came out and video backgrounds, parallax, colorful gradients were all the rage and drop shadows. And we talked about brutalism. And I'm wondering, in your view, what has happened in the last six years in terms of trends and counter trends? What happened? It's always interesting to see, you know, how cyclical trends, you know, go. They generally just come and go and then they return and so on. And out of that list that we shared in 2018, I would say they're all still pretty much around. But you know, the parallax scrolling phase of website design has sort of calmed down a bit. You know, when people, you know, first saw that trend for parallax scrolling, everyone's like, wow, you know, we need to do that. We have to do that. But not every website warrants parallax scrolling. You know, a lot of the time it was done poorly. And it would affect performance, couldn't read the content properly. And I think people sort of caught on that, hey, you know, it's not worth it. So you will see parallax scrolling, but it's just done really subtly at the moment by good developers, in my opinion, you know, you're not often seeing some bad parallax just for the sake of parallax, but you know, just the trends and I think this is a good time to share the screen, Roman. Let's do it. Let's do it. All right. So let me get interactive with the screen here. So, you know, everything's been used parallax a little bit less, but there's three trends I sort of pinpointed since 2018. And the first one is a massive one, a website called Linear Launched. And Linear Launched, and I reviewed it, I picked it up for the first time in you can see here, 2019 August. And it's pretty straightforward site, you know, it was dark, dark schemed, it was beautiful. But what happened is it started to iterate, they got better designers, and then they sort of locked on to this trend, which was dark, glowing, you know, like glowing accents within a dark site. I'm going to show you, since then, the site's redesigned a whole bunch of times. And unfortunately, it never turned into a one page website after this point, but I'm going to show you. You couldn't add it to your site. I couldn't add it to my gallery because we have to stick within our niche. But a perfect example of this is the Reflect app. So you know, we've got, you know, dark, you know, overall color scheme. And then we have our glowing accents, which they're using here with a purple. And it's often like a futuristic feel to things, you know, a lot of the, you know, the buttons will glow, and there'll be subtle animations over certain things. But what happened and it's called the linear effect is that, you know, when people saw this for the first time, they were like, wow, that is just such a fresh, futuristic part of website design that we haven't seen. And you just saw the copycats happen. So the linear effect took the internet, you know, by storm since we last spoke. And there were dozens, if not hundreds of websites that had the same aesthetic. So as you can see here, you know, the highlights here, the glows, beautiful though, you know, a lot of subtle animations, you know, reused, you know, this is really, really clever development, you know, huge. This is pretty much the highest tier you'll see, you know, using this type of linear aesthetic. You know, it's more subtle generally, and especially, you know, a lot of people don't have that, you know, form of budget, but the linear effect hit the world by storm. Second one, and another huge site that people have copied, you know, since they redesigned was Stripe, okay? So Stripe, you know, came out with this sort of a mesh gradient. That's what I like to call it. It's like a colorful mesh gradient background. It just added so much, you know, I want to say excitement to the page. It just, you know, brought it to life and so on. So I've created a tag on OnePage Love for mesh gradients. So, you know, as you can see here, you know, like all these sites just use the subtle bit of, you know, mesh gradient, mesh gradient. And then what you notice is that, you know, and this is more modern than, you know, back then, but a lot of it's animated, you know, just like Stripes was. And that's just like a beautiful mesh gradient that's sort of subtly moving in the background. Gives you that, you know, beautiful first impression. So second up is that Stripe effect. Yeah, this one, the mesh effect here on this side, it's animated based on your mouse. Is that what's happening? Yes. It's interactive. You can see here. Just subtly, right? Not even over the head or you can maybe almost miss it, but it's there. Huge, huge fan of subtle interactions in any website. You know, it's not just, you know, you know, over the top and so on. So just to recap, we had the, you know, linear site came out, it redesigned and it just featured that, you know, glowing accents on the dark background, which is amazing. But then Stripe went, you know, even, and this is a light site, but it has this, you know, really, you know, rich, colorful mesh gradient background. And then the copycats happened and then exactly the same thing happened. So trend-wise, you know, it's a trend. It's like it's being reused everywhere. So that was definitely the second one. Third one is actually been around forever, but it wasn't always integrated in websites for a long time. It was Bento grids. So since we chatted, there weren't that many websites featuring Bento grids. And if I was to use an image of what a Bento, you know, boxes is, it's just a compartmentalized box. You know, I think it's maybe Japanese origin. I need to double check that. There's even an emoji for a Bento box, but that's a good way to think about it. It's like everything is just neatly organized within one box. So this is a site, bentogrids.com, completely dedicated to, you know, all the different Bento grids out there on websites. Great resource. I'm sure Roman's going to link to it. But on one page love, I have a section where I've just created my favorite ones. So, you know, just neatly organized. A lot of the time the actual elements within the box, you know, get cut off, they get cropped off to feel like it's, you know, all contained. You don't have to show the whole, you're just teasing, you're just teasing. It's like a preview and a table of contents of sorts. Exactly. Exactly. Think of it like the cover of the newspaper, you know, go continue into, you know, page seven. So, you know, that's these examples I've curated a lot. A lot of them feature just the metrics, the stats, the highlights, the summary. That's a good way to think of the Bento box. And then a huge website, and unfortunately it's also been, it's redesigned since, but diagram, diagram.com launched and they had the most incredible, you know, Bento boxes, this Bento grid here that was interactive and so on. They got acquired by Figma and now Diagram is Figma AI. But this was one of the biggest websites that launched, I think, when was it? I think it was, yeah, last year, May last year, just got that in time and it took the world by storm. I would say that this sort of effect, which has a glow on the dark background, you know, inspired definitely by the linear that we were talking about, but the Bento side of things where you've, you know, you've incorporated a lot of that into the Bento grid and so on. Huge development behind it, but this hit the trends by storm. Those are like the top three, I would say, trends that have really, you know, solidified themselves since 2018. Sure, there's, you know, so many more we could talk about. I have one question about these three trends, because again, this question, why does this happen? And I guess it could have two answers. It could be someone just stumbled upon something and it, you know, it caught on. But I suspect that especially for the mesh gradients and the Bento box, it has something to do with technology, making it really easy to do that, right? I'm thinking of CSS grids, possibly, or, you know, CSS gradients. Absolutely. I touch on it a little bit in the next point, but what has happened is that browser compatibility for real clever snazzy pants, you know, CSS has now become, you know, there's a lot more compatibility across, you know, across the board. And we get to see, you know, these grids, which resize down to mobile really easily. You know, let's think of a Bento grid that was launched in, let's just say 2015, you know, might've just been an animated GIF, you know, just in that block that was created using, you know, After Effects, you know, also, you know, huge mission to do. And that's very difficult, you know, for the whole team to put that together. But now, you know, CSS grid, you know, we've got the type now is, you know, within the box, it's all reused. And these elements, again, you were saying like SVGs now, we've come such a long way and we've got, you know, way lighter files. We've got, you know, SVGs are compressed. We've got Lottie files. We've got, you know, the mesh gradients, like the backgrounds now, like, you know, back in the day, the code that it took to have an animated colorful background that was SVG was monstrous. But now the more people are doing it, the more people are inspecting, the more people are contributing and sharing, you know, on sites like CodePen and so on. And people are like, oh, wait, it's not that difficult. And obviously just, you know, this community online as well. The CSS community is absolutely incredible. And yes, but compatibility is a massive one because, you know, to have a video background, which is still popular, it's just, you know, you can have a 25 megabyte load on a very colorful background that loads with a whole bunch of different colors for a very long time. But now we have that interactive mesh, you know, because it can now be sensitive to your cursor. And that gives that wow effect, which, you know, you're not going to get off video. So to answer your question, yes, it's all technology. Cool. All right, let's move on to the now. Okay. So design trends that I think are going to continue to grow. I've seen them, you know, more and more and more. You know, I'm lucky in the sense that I have the site OnePage Love and a lot of people submit because they want to get exposure and, you know, be a part of the community and so on. But I get to see, you know, what is happening more and more and more. And there's definitely one is just big 3D elements. So let's just load up an example. And you know, Spline has recently been integrated with Webflow natively. And what I've seen, you know, in the last six months is just truly, you know, extraordinary, like what people are doing. So this is also interactive. These are big 3D elements that are just, you know, around your page, you know, as you scroll, as you can see here, this, you know, bleeds over the lines, you know, the border lines here, interactive with my cursor. case that you need to create a big 3D element rolling around that's, you know, my Mac fan is maybe going off in the corner here. But the advancements though with Spline and the team there, especially with Webflow now where it's native, you can just bring it in really easily. It was very difficult back in the day. You are seeing a lot of creativity. So let's just load up another one. And again, it's like if people want to be expressive and, you know, the bigger the item, it's almost like, wow, that's so unusual. You know, we don't often see just a big product just straight over the text. Like I can't even read half the text, you know, because you may, they're trying to be creative, arty, push the boundaries. It's not always user-friendly. It needs to be said. Let's show another example. Okay. So this, this is a pre-manufactured office cube called Quadrix. And when you arrive at the site, there's just a huge, big office cube that goes over most of the thing. But at this point you're thinking, wow, that's, you can see, even see the subtle parallax, you know, as we're going. Parallax doesn't actually start in the beginning and then it kicks off as you scroll. High quality image. You can see it's just, you know, completely cut out over the text. And yeah, again, it's like, as you, and then big images. You know, big images is also something that probably needs to be said. It's not, it's not one of my points here, but you know, the, the quality we're getting now with compression, how fast we are getting CDN hosting, you know, that delivery network that's everywhere, you know, you can take more risks with massive images and websites versus back in the day where there was, you know, one server trying to load a really big image. And, you know, this site for me, it's like, this is the first time I've loaded it, you know, today and, you know, we going through it and the performance for me is, it's pretty impressive. You know, like everything is, is here. Everything's loaded as I've started scrolling. So yeah, that's, yeah, it's, it's really unique. Yeah. Yeah. I would, I would also say that based on the audience here, right. This is probably a fairly, well, one, you have to have the space to put this office. So you're kind of, you're segmenting your target audience already towards those people probably that have a pretty good internet connection, right? Yeah. And yeah, these are people who, I wouldn't go as far as saying almost, you know, Scandinavian have money, you know, there's, yeah, there's got that aesthetic here. Okay. Let's, let's just roll one more example. It's a beautiful example here. I mean, this typography too, that's wonderful. So this is, this is an event. It happened in March, but again, it's, it's just that first impression you, like this hasn't really been seen a lot. Also the type in the background looks like it's going through this crystal and you start scrolling and you know, it's gone, but they didn't have to do that, but you know, they did it and it was very impressive and the performance was, it was okay. And then yeah, straightforward event site, you know, reused, you know, concept your elements throughout, but yeah, that's another example. And this, and this, you know, 10 years ago, wasn't really seen, you know, this would be a video, but look at this text, I can select it. So let's just actually take a look. Chemistry. It's a bunch of scientists. Yes. Yes. Cool scientists. We've got it. Yeah. It's okay. It's a fair innovation in chemistry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fair. Okay. So just to, we've got one more there, but what I said there was, you know, big 3D elements and you know, Spline is really, you know, come to the party. And Spline is the software that allows you to make the 3D elements? Exactly. Exactly. And I just saying, so that's just worth, if you, if, if this interests you and you are, you know, have that audience that would be, you know, impressed by this, then definitely just see what Spline are doing. You know, there's a good team and they've, they make good live streams and, and so on. Okay. So the next one I want to say is the variable, variable fonts have, you know, increased in, you know, compatibility. There's more people investing in variable fonts and so on, and people integrating them in websites. On OnePage Love, I, you know, there's sort of a blend, which I like to call viewport sized typography. So that often pairs really well with a variable font. So what a variable font is, is that as you resize it down, you know, it changes the weight or it can have a different weight. So this is my example. So I'm just saying, here's the collection, but a good example of, you know, here's Grace Walker's portfolio. If you look at the size, you know, browser is right now, and when we, when we resize it down, you know, it just fits perfectly. She never wants her surname on the second line. She always wants in the top line and that is her header. And that's the point she's made. And that's what variable fonts will allow is that perfect resizing and just keeping that, you know, bold aesthetic that she wants all the way down. Let's use another example here. Okay. So I've got another site, which is big typography. Let's see if this is, I just, I reviewed the site an hour ago. Let's see. Maybe this won't have variable fonts, but yeah, there we go. So it just keeps it all together for you. Look at these little elements floating around. Definitely a trend I'm seeing. So just back on it is that, you know, we've got viewport size photography that I've been curating here, but big typography as well, just, you know, huge header. So that is my trend number two. So the first one was big 3D elements and, you know, shout out to Spline. Second one is just big typography, you know, with the use of variable fonts, lots of white space around that photography. You can see, look how big this is. Hold on, you know, people are, there's again, this is where we were with the acid fair and then yeah, it's just, there's so many examples here. How many have I curated? 628 examples of big typography. And then the third one, which I've already sort of mentioned, but you know, when we started to see bento boxes, we saw pretty simple bento boxes, which look beautiful. And they, you know, included a little bit of text and a little, you know, subtle image or so on. But what we're seeing now is we're seeing more interactive bento boxes. So this is a site called Lovey, which is an app where I think they scan your face and they give you a skincare routine. As you can see, look within the bento box. As you scroll, the timeline subtly moves. This is just happening while I'm not here or within the bento box. I think they've got a better example here, look, hover, hover, hover. So interactive bento boxes summarizing. So third trend, we're going to see more and more is interactive and animated bento boxes. A quick maybe interstitial question. I think one big thing that has happened since 2018 is that for designers anyway, is the emergence of Figma and just this, you know, software, seemingly, I mean, I've been doing web design for, you know, almost 25 years. I've, you know, I've gone the Photoshop route and I worked in Illustrator, I never really got to sketch, I never really got to sketch that that's because that was only Mac based. But then Figma seemed to come out of nowhere. And I think I was like converted within like a day or two. So I don't know the question. I mean, obviously, it changed a little. How much did Figma change web design? Do you have a hunch? It's funny, because I was was Photoshop, I never used sketch. But I know that sketch, you know, the vector side of things was so attractive, where, you know, Photoshop, if you accidentally set your document a certain size, you couldn't exactly just resize it bigger or export your elements bigger, because they would be pixelated. But because it was, you know, vector based, like sketch was, it was just so easy and the, you know, I think the design, you know, Rasmus Andersen, which we were talking about earlier, being one of the designers and developers there is that, you know, I feel like the UX of Figma brought a lot of people in their free tier, got a lot of people playing around, spinning up files, wireframing, the exporting of the elements, I think is wonderful, you know, exporting the obviously the SVG. But the big thing about sketch and Figma is that, you know, Figma was, you know, cloud based, it was web, you could open it in a website, and you could collaborate. So you could easily just share a file and get someone else to chime in, you could, you know, copy and paste assets, where as far as I know, is that sketches, you know, you pay, I think, per year as a license, collaborating is not that easy. And it's not cloud based. So you couldn't just, you know, whip open another computer from and just do all your files are just there. Am I right? Yeah, yeah, it's, that's actually, I'm glad you bring that up. Because that's another thing. It seemed to do a lot of things at the same time. It's, you know, it gives us an interface to that really made sense for interactive design. And then it had this multiplayer, you know, you could be in the same file with your friend and, you know, work on something together. I oftentimes think when I do print design, and I'm an InDesign, I'm like, and I collaborate with someone, wouldn't it be cool if we could just be in the same file? So much. You know, it's also worth saying is that since 2018, website builders have come a long way. You know, a lot of them just the performance wise, it's just so much more stable within browsers. The default design you can get, you know, I've, I create a lot of tutorials back in the day for Squarespace. I still feel like Squarespace is such a good solution for someone who knows nothing about design and at least wants a good first impression. They will give you a blog and like a site with a template and it's you're on your way. There's constraints and every single website builder has its pros and cons. But, you know, where, you know, Squarespace started, I felt like they led the way with design, but then, you know, Webflow stepped up, Frame pivoted to a website builder. And now it's worth saying, and you sparked us off from talking about Figma is that a lot of people are saying they are actually designing their sites straight in the website builder. So a lot of people are saying that for Framer especially. Framer and designers, the UI is quite similar to Figma, but, you know, a lot of, you know, Webflow have introduced slots and now they've got shared libraries and you can literally drag in all your library of components that you've stored from all the sites you've ever built and you can just drag them and rearrange it. So if you're talking about getting validation with a landing page idea, and you just need to switch out some text and graphics, you don't really need Figma at that point. So that's a really interesting way it's going. Yeah. That's interesting for Figma, right? As a business entity, it's like, well, we can maybe just cut it out or on the other hand, and I don't know if that's going to happen. Sometimes I wonder though, because over the years, Figma has gotten so much better at adding tools for you to, you know, add some responsiveness and add some variables and add some interaction. I'm wondering if eventually, you know, Figma becomes like Framer, right? Where you kind of publish and it's done. They've got their code switcher. I would be very surprised if there wasn't some form of export to websites somehow, you know, when Notion launched the productivity tool, no one saw that it could be, you know, basically a website builder. A very simple, you know, text based with like insert some images and then some, you know, smart guys created, you know, hosting for your Notion sites. And, you know, there's a site like Super, for example, and then they offered the caching and so on. And we're always saying like, is there the risk that Notion will ever offer, you know, custom domains or something like that? And people are like, no, that's crazy. And they've literally started to do it now. So it's interesting. So on the one half, people are saying, is Figma in trouble because of people going straight to the website builders or the website builders in trouble because of Figma with a massive amount of, you know, people that are going to be able to export. I think Figma is here to stay. I'm a huge fan of Dylan Field, the CEO. He's the calmest, most level-headed CEO I've ever seen in my life. But there's been some choices with the UI recently that have been interesting. They're trying to do a lot. So let's just see what happens. It's exciting to follow it. Let's jump in a couple of your favorite websites from the past year. Let's look at those. Okay, so this is a very difficult one. When you say that, I just, you know, these came to mind. Obviously, you know, that recent CBIOS. And but part of my course, which we're going to talk about is trying to showcase your product in the best way possible in your landing page. Okay. And I just thought the first thing I thought of was the Screen Studio, you know, screen recording app by Adam. And what it does is that the Screen Studio, there's lots of screen recording sites out there. But their unique selling point or the unique selling proposition is that as you go with your screen, it follows your cursor and it, you know, zooms into certain places. So it tries to do the heavy lifting. So, you know, as a video editor, you know, often we have to record with ScreenFlow or whatever we're using, and you just have to manually move everything. He's like, no, we're going to do it for you. So here he is, as I started scrolling, he literally, you know, it zooms in. And it follows the cursor, as you can see. So it's moving the app around. And it's exactly their selling points. This is the differentiator between all the other software has been showcased to me within, you know, seconds. and obviously here he is, he's the founder. It's got subtitles that are done fairly and properly, but the real X factor, and this got that wow, is that I'm wondering at this point, like, that's cool, but what does the UI look like of the app? What does the interface of the app look like? Because I need to work on this thing all day. I'm not so sure I wanna do it if it's like a big mess. So you just keep scrolling. And what he does is he takes the screen that you've just recorded, and he transports it straight into the app. And literally, so like, let's just step it up a bit, is that I haven't even read one word yet. Like, I know it's got to do with screen. I haven't read this. I haven't read anything. I've just like watched this. I haven't even played the video. And I scroll down, I'm like, wow, look, it's, you know, here it is. I get to change the background out. Oh, that looks so good. Look how clean the export button is in the top. And now, you know, scroll a little more. Oh, it's, you know, helped people at these companies. Like, you know, the biggest social proof you can get. So this for me was just like a slam dunk because with attention spans, you know, plummeting to zero, you know, a lot of people in that landing page world will tell you, oh, you know, you need to have intro copy that resonates with the user's problem. And, you know, all these things, and it's all true, but there's no one set thing that's really gonna move your landing page and increase conversions. It's always chipping away at a lot of things. And, you know, obviously you've got to understand who the user is and what they need to see and read or what they would need to see and read to be persuaded. You need to understand all these things. But for me, if you can truly show them your product as fast as possible, and with a bit of delight, I feel like you have cut through so much noise and you really have, you know, grabbed their attention. And that's the thing, you know, like you need their attention when they arrive. And now they want to read more, you know? So it's not like just you're shouting at me, oh, this is the best screen recording tool ever. Like you're showing him. Anyway, so I've really gone too far in my course there, but this one was very impressive. Another one, which unfortunately has, you know, the business has pivoted. So I've marked it as offline here. I've actually just got a version. I wonder if it's gonna share, can you see that? Yes. Okay, great. So what this was is that this is a web design agency that offers a subscription for their services, but they call themselves Bite Size. And what I loved is that there's just, everything is so on brand to do with food and restaurants. And it's just so different than anything you've seen. And as you scroll, you know, obviously they're gonna start off and they're talking about design served in delicious, affordable bites. The whole thing is that you, you know, with a design subscription, it's gonna be cheaper than hiring a full-time senior designer. You're gonna have a subscription. You're gonna be able to send a request every two days. Anyway, so they talk about it. It has this cool little character, this mascot. It's got a lot of flavor and so on, but then they lean into the menu and the menu is just so different. And it was so easy to consume. And it gave you that diner feel, you know, here's, you know, almost that table-class aesthetic. There's your menu. And it's like, oh wow, sale. A lot of flavor, a lot of personality, a lot to do with the sites. You know, you think it's all visuals, but it's copywriting. You know, copy is so big in the sites and that paired with good visuals and you have, you know, a slam dunk site in my opinion. So Michelin star experience, fast casual pricing, served up fresh, revised, you know, stop when you're full. Anyway, so I wouldn't- It's really leaning into it. It leans into it in a huge way. So yeah, and then the- Top chefs in the kitchen. So exactly. So then, yeah, they sign it off with just, you know, pricing table, but differentiated by single serving and dinner for two. And they talk about one request at a time and two requests at a time, which is pretty much, you know, how most design, unlimited design services are pricing. It's like, you can't offer too much or the whole model is broken. Anyway, I was just so impressed and it went completely viral. Still hungry on menu. You know, okay, I'm not gonna go on Roman, but I could go on forever on the site. That was so refreshing and came to mind when you said, what is one of the best sites I'd seen. It is wonderful, but Rob, what happened? They're out of business? No, so the company, you know, there was sister sites. They had another site called Viral Cuts, which, you know, helped you not with websites, but just with like video editing, exactly the same model. But then they created a, not a parent company, but just a bigger company that called Landed. And Landed offer all the same services, but under one umbrella. It's all just very structured and so on. And I assume everyone from here is working for Landed. It got them where they are now, this site. Exactly. But this site is no longer around. It's no longer online. So the third one is Gorgeous, a UI course by Pablo Stanley. Pablo Stanley is just a really well-known designer. And when I first, I've seen a lot of course websites, obviously I do my own course, been trying to find great references. And the thing with learning is that you wanna be motivated and you wanna be excited to learn. And there's not a lot of sites that really capture that delight and so on. So when I first arrived at the site for mastering Gorgeous UI design, they invested heavily in just such a beautiful video, a big typography. You must hear it with the music and the sound and everything. I'm not gonna play it now, but Wes Anderson influences a team of people. You can see those jump cuts as they're going forward, but lots of color, lots of flavor, positive vibes. Look as we're going down, what are the two most important things I probably wanna know about the course as I'm going down? It's like, I wanna watch the trailer and I wanna get the course. And just the clearest sticky footer with a call to action buttons. Keep going, who's in charge? It's Pablo Stanley. Look at the little bleed over the edge, high quality images. Oh, we have some bento boxes, but color, color, color, vibrant team. Testimonials, it's got a bento grid sort of style, but again, color, color, vibe. And then let's learn together. He talks, when you watch a course, everything makes sense, but everyone in the course video is cast at the bottom here. So this for me is a testament to color and just high quality photography as well. And then obviously the copywriting as well is it just, it gets you excited. So yeah, these are the three that sort of came to mind that I really enjoyed. Anyone watching this, just definitely try watch this course trailer. It's one of the best I've ever seen. We are linked to all these sites for sure, at least the ones that are still online or we are linked to the references on your website, one page love. I have one more question then I really wanna talk about your upcoming landing page online course. So there's a lot of chatter everywhere and every, not just in design, but everywhere in society and every single industry about AI and how that might change the world. And I'm wondering your take on how AI will change the web, web design, web development, how it already has changed it. And maybe it's funny in your recent, you have an email newsletter, it's called Love Letter that you sent out. And there was a, I don't know if it was a tweet, it was definitely a quote by Joanna Machiejewska. And she said, I want AI to do my laundry and my dishes so that I can do art and writing, not for AI to do my art and writing so I can do my laundry and dishes. That was a really nice way to put it. I think we're just starting out with all of this. I think we're kind of in the middle of this first phase where you can kind of see things have potential. Some things are changing, but it hasn't really hit in my opinion. I'm wondering what you think. So first thing I wanna say is that I feel like we are early in this. So it's difficult for me to give a solid opinion on what it's gonna become. I'm not totally sure. Different users, different use cases I've seen, there's some very impressive stuff, some really bad stuff. I would say that when it comes to website design, what I've seen so far and how it's influencing websites is that I feel like it's having quite a negative effect on website design at the moment. Lot of poor websites, lot of very quick churned up websites. Like if you used a lot of the website builders and you've generated a site using a prompt and you're like, hey, I need a site for unlimited design subscription. I want it to be chef themed. I want your copywriting to be cheeky, like the site we just saw. You're gonna get the worst version of what I just showed you. But for, is it ideation? Is that the word? Generating ideas and so on. It's quite good. It's quite good for you to come up with that idea because you're thinking, oh, I'm thinking about creating a service called Bite-sized. Generate me a landing page with the cheekiest copy ever. And then the more specific you are with the prompt, the more it's gonna explore and be creative. And then what it's gonna do is it's gonna spit you out a site very quickly. And then you're like, okay, cool. Let's do one now, similar but something else. And you get to compare them side by side. And just by like writing out some text for 10 minutes, you've got yourself, you know, like eight landing pages or maybe an hour. And then you've got like eight landing pages and you really get to check them out. And you're like, that direction has got something on it. So I really like that. Cause if you are just, you know, putting on paper and then to Figma and then to like share, you know, with AI, you know, you pump it into a website builder, you're sharing that link with someone and they're just giving you feedback and that's happening very fast. So that's a good thing. But from what I've seen about like, I need a restaurant landing page for my clients and then the stock photos that are inside, they also AI generated bad. You know, the color's generally bad. The type is bad, but it's starting points. It's good for you to, you know, take over and just maybe eliminate ideas. I really like AI to eliminate stuff, but I wanna keep it positive. I feel like it's, you know, it's cliche saying, but it's, this is the worst it's ever gonna be. So, you know, we've already, the progress in the last one year is astronomical. You know, like two years ago, none of this was, you know, really a thing. And where I feel it is gonna be good is for someone who maybe doesn't have a design eye and you say, hey, you know, I need a color scheme that's subtle and I want it to have an autumn feel to it. I definitely don't want just black and white websites. I need tones. And I feel like AI is gonna take someone really close to creating a beautiful color scheme. And then what's gonna happen with the AI stock sites is you're gonna be specific. And I really like this use case for AI where, you know, with chat GPT and so on, you can be so specific for an image and you can say, I know it's still got that, you know, AI feel, but that, you know, we'll get less and less, is that, you know, you have that restaurant and you're like, hey, I need an image for my clients because I know they have this, this, and this. And you almost ask them to generate you an image just for the demo. That's so close to reality. And it's gonna aid, you know, people creating sites much faster to get, you know, send to the client, get the sign off. Maybe you replace that in time. But I feel like we will see stock images in websites that are gonna be quite good, but now they're bad. You know, they really are. But all stock photos have looked, you know, pretty poor in a while, since forever. But AI, you know, where it is now, we have seen, you know, how it contributes to a website design. It's negative, in my opinion. Really interesting, yeah. Yeah, but like, I'm not throwing shade at it. It's like, I'm not gonna fight this where it's going. I'm gonna be there. I support people, you know, that are using it to spin up a website very quickly to get validation. You know, you don't need a lot if you're just trying to gauge interest. You know, if you've got like one decent image, a bit of copy that's compelling, and you've got just a lead capture saying, hey, this is maybe something that we're working on. What do you think? Like to use AI to help you move fast as a business decision and a maker, wonderful. But if you're creating a design agency and you're really trying to get subscriptions and every subscription is $8,000, and it's like, you've got to nurture that design and put some care into it. So you might- It's kind of my take. Yeah, yeah. So you use it to ideate. Maybe as a designer, you use it to ideate to kind of get some work quickly or to broaden your perspective. And then like the human element comes in and edits. Or you use it as maybe a non-designer to get you close enough. I'm also thinking, if you have a little corner cafe, like maybe getting to 80% is just fine. Why do more if that's, if your audience is a few blocks around your neighborhood? If it's usable and it's got the information, people need, being online and having your corner of the internet is better than not having that corner of the internet. So here I am probably being a design snob, but I have seen really bad AI built sites where it's not that legible. It doesn't actually make sense and it breaks and people think that's fine, it's not fine. I know I listened to your interview with Rasmus on your podcast show, and you talked about using AI for coding. And I think we are there on the same page. It is incredibly sophisticated. And to me, it came out of nowhere. And I use Copilot in my code. And obviously I know how to code. And I think it's a little different when you're just getting started, when code is being written that you don't understand. But if the code that's being written is exactly what I was going to write, or what I would have had to look up at some website, like, how do I do? How do I traverse the DOM or loop through an array? What's the syntax again? And you just start writing and then Copilot is like, this is what you want to do. Right. And like, yeah, click. I think of it as an extension of the sidekick and stack overflow. We're talking about Figma being in trouble or not in trouble and so on. A site like Stack Overflow, they've got a lot of different industries they're getting for it. It's not only code, but I was in Stack Overflow every day of my life. And I would find out how to do something in WordPress and I just paste it in. And on my local setup, it would just break. I didn't do that. And I haven't visited Stack Overflow in about three months. And I'm paying someone else $20 a month because of it. It's like, and who wins this? So again, with your question on website design and AI, I'm not fighting it. I'm rooting for people to make it better. But I truly feel like the color side of the thing, that's AI. For AI to generate you color based on hex value, like what of four colors that work with the one color I give you? That's almost science. Sure, it's subjective, but there's science. Not a lot of people know that. That's going to happen really quickly. And again, it can give you 20 and you pick, right? Exactly, exactly. Yeah, so I am excited. Absolutely excited. Well, Rob, let's talk about your upcoming course a little bit. We don't have to go hard. I want to say that, you know, anyone listening, you know, like we did the last course, sorry, the last interview is that, you know, anyone, if they are interested in the way, you know, I think about things and, you know, they're like what I'm an advocate for online. We definitely can do a coupon again for your audience. Again, 70 percent off, you know, using the coupon. It's not ready yet, but it should be. I don't know when this goes live, but it will it'll stand. And thank you for sharing that on my e-book. So there are three ways to persuade someone in a landing page. That's always how I like to think about landing page optimization, is that you can either tell them and that is through your copywriting. And, you know, it's like buy my thing. You know, it can be clever. It can be subtle. It can be cheeky. It can resonate with the user's problem. But that's definitely how you're trying to persuade them is through copy. Second way, which is a little bit stronger, is you can get others to tell them. So this is your social proof, like your testimonials, your ratings, you know, it's not saying like, you know, you were like, hey, buy my thing. Someone else like you should probably buy this thing. It really helped me. You know, that's a lot more convincing. It's that the recommendation and the third one. And this is what excites me. And this is why I want to do this course. You know, I've been working, you know, adding notes in Trello for years and I moved to Notion and I started the landing page masterclass and it just I'm a little bit jaded in the landing page optimization space where people like you need to, you know, resonate with the user's problem and set up a funnel and set up the Facebook ads and then make millions of dollars. Like I feel like I'm allergic to that part of the Internet. And I it was an identity crisis, you know, I was in because here I am creating the landing page masterclass, but I'm not an advocate for that, which is very much the landing page world. So I was like, I have to do my own, my own style, my own spin. And what excites me and what excites me is the third way to persuade. So to recap, you need to tell them and get others to tell them. But I like landing pages, I love landing pages that invest in assets and demos and try and show them. So my course is called Show Them. I spent an arm and a leg, I ate cereal for like a month, you know, just to get showthem.com and I am all in. And what I want to do is I want to celebrate landing pages that, you know, have how it works infographics and clever explainer videos. So you can show them with explainer videos, you can show them with interactive demos, show them with color, you know, show them with high quality product photography. So, you know, each chapter has, you know, best practices, what to do, what not to do. I've interviewed some founders of, you know, the landing pages that I really love. And, you know, they've built these products, interviewed some customers. You know, why did you think that when you arrived at the page? I've tried to add as much depth and details I can, but each chapter has best practices, what not to do, dozens of visual references to what I'm talking about. And then it's got, you know, additional resources. How do you how can you get an explainer video done? You know, what are good examples to explain the videos? So try to add as much, you know, details I can per topic. But it's a massive celebration on landing pages and helping you think out the box. And how can I show my customer my product in the best way possible? So that's my course, showthem.com. Wonderful. That sounds great. And I know from your your yo back then it was a TV show. Now it's a podcast and a video. I have a feeling that it will be lively and with humor and visually gorgeous. So, yeah, I don't doubt it. Rob, thank you so much for taking the time. I think this has been really wonderful to have a survey of web design trends and talk about a couple of other things. I wish you all the best. And thanks for your time. Thanks, Roman. Always good to chat to you and well done on just helping other people in the in our little scene, a little slice of the Internet. Good to chat to you. Take care. Bye. Ciao.