We have reached the visual mock-up phase, the final phase of our user experience process. I hope you are looking forward to making your websites look beautiful. Let's look at our abstract to concrete paradigm one more time. As you know, with every phase, we've grown a little bit more concerned with the final shape of the site. Now, in the visual mock-up phase, all we are concerned with is the final shape of the site. What we're designing here will actually be seen by the user. The deliverables of the previous phases will only indirectly affect the user's experience. The user will not actually see your strategy document or your outline of scope. They won't see the sitemap diagram or your wireframes either. What they will see is the visual design, the look and feel of the site. In fact, the visual design is the very first thing users will experience. While the visual mock-up phase is the last phase of the UX design process, users will form their first impression from the decisions made here. And first impressions are obviously very important. And the visual mock-up phase is therefore very important. But as I've emphasized throughout the entire course sequence, the success of the site as a whole depends on the successful completion of each phase. That's why we have a structured process in the first place. You could go and start designing visual mock-ups right after receiving your client's brief, and the visual design might even be stunningly beautiful, but your website will likely not be as usable or as effective as it could be because you didn't spend the time defining your goals and determining the necessary requirements and structuring your information properly. The fact that a user will judge the visual design first reminds me of something that the writer Scott McCloud mentions in his excellent book, Understanding Comics. This book, by the way, should be required reading for every visual design student. It's a great primer on visual literacy, and I highly recommend it. Since the book is written as a comic, it's also quite entertaining. But what I'm trying to get to is that McCloud mentions how people appreciate visual art most easily by looking at the surface of the visual art, kind of like choosing an apple for its shiny skin. Underneath the surface of the artwork, however, there should be additional layers, craft, structure, idiom, form, and hopefully an idea at the very center. If these inner layers are missing and there's only a shiny surface, then continuing the metaphor, we have an apple that is beautiful on the outside but hollow on the inside. And this makes me think of our UX process again. If we don't have a strategy in the center of our project, our project might turn out quite hollow as well. What I also find quite interesting is how our design process is exactly the opposite journey from how a user experiences the final site. We designers start with strategy and end with creating the visual mock-ups, which in turn, the user sees first. Underneath this surface skin, the user will hopefully find a solid structure of the information on each page, which we developed in the wireframes. And underneath that, there should be a solid structure of the entire site, which we created when working on the sitemap. And we hopefully have included all necessary content and functionality that the user will be looking for, as defined in the outline of scope. And lastly, if we have done our work well, the site will achieve the user and client goals that we determined way back in the strategy phase.