Form elements are how we can gather input from our users. Let's take a look at what kind of form fields there are, when to use them, and how they can be represented in our wireframes. Let's start with checkboxes and radio buttons. These are really great when you want the user to select something from a list of predefined options. Checkboxes enable the user to select multiple options from a list. One can also call it an AND selection. Select this, and this, and this. In this example, both apples and oranges are selected. For radio buttons, you can only ever select one option. So it's an OR selection. Select this, or this, or this. In the example, only apples is selected, and if the user were to click on oranges, apples would be unselected, and oranges would be selected. The default visual cue for separating these two patterns is that checkboxes are rectangular, and radio buttons are round. It doesn't have to be like this in the final UI, but in HTML, for example, without any CSS styling attached, checkboxes and radio buttons would look very similar to these wireframe examples. Now a dropdown list is another design pattern for forms, and it works in a similar way to radio buttons. Dropdowns also allow the user to choose one option from a list, but the options are presented in a more compact space. This is actually quite similar to an accordion. You see a headline, in this case, select fruit, and when you click on the field, all options are visible, and you can make a selection. So dropdown lists are really great for instances where there are lots and lots of options. Let's compare dropdown lists to radio buttons. Which one is better? Well, it of course depends. Radio buttons have the advantage that the user is able to see all the options without having to do anything. No extra click is required. But the advantage of dropdown lists is that if you have a lot of options, you save screen real estate and you make your design feel less busy. So imagine having the user to select the country they live in. Well, a dropdown list is pretty great for that for two reasons. First, there are over 200 countries, so adding them all as radio buttons will take up a lot of space. Two, it should be fairly simple for the user to make a choice. They don't have to read through the entire list to make an informed decision. They know which country to look for, so it's not a difficult decision, especially when the list is sorted alphabetically. The reason we don't just ask the user to type their country into a text field is also twofold. One, it's just easier to pick from a list. Two, we don't have to deal with spelling mistakes. Speaking of text fields, they are up next and they are pretty straightforward. Text fields allow the user to type something as free form answers. They come in two flavors though. There's a single line field that allows the user to type in a shorter amount of information. Sometimes though, you want the user to type more text. Then a text area field is better. It allows for multi-line text inputs. One question you might ask yourself when designing a form is what are you going to do with the data? How are you going to process it? Text fields are great if you don't know what kind of answer the user might give. Users can type whatever. But what if you want to use the data in a more structured way? If you want to easily build a graph to show which fruits are the most popular, it's much easier if you have a predefined list. Because such structured data can be processed much more easily. When people type into a text field, you don't know what you're going to get. You don't even know in this instance if they're going to write a fruit or just something random. Of course, the drawback of a predefined list is that you might not include all the fruits that exist. Next up, we have a number stepper. That's pretty straightforward. It's an element that allows people to choose a whole number. When clicked, the plus and minus buttons increase and decrease the value by one. You can also define minimum and maximums, and people wouldn't be able to click above or below that number. A slider is an effective tool for choosing between different points on a scale. Users can easily express their preference by sliding the control to the desired position along the spectrum. Do they like it all the way to one side? All the way to the other? Or somewhere in the middle? Toggle switches are great for binary choices. Meaning you have two opposing choices. Like on-off, yes-no, light-dark, etc. You'll see these used often in options menus. Do you want to receive our newsletter, for example? These little switches feel very intuitive for such yes-no choices. And lastly, we have buttons. When clicked, they will trigger some action. For example, they might take you to the next page of a longer form. Or they can submit a form. Or they might add a product to a shopping cart. So these are the most common form elements. Of course, there are more advanced elements or hybrids that you will find across websites. Let me show you a form element that is a little bit more complex. This is for a project that I've worked on a few years ago. I created a website that lists every single student that has studied in the CalArts design program. And this website has a big search field. So that's basically a text input field. But it's more complicated than that. When you start typing in this field, a list of suggestions appear. So that marries a text field with a drop-down menu. Once you see the name that you're looking for, you can just select it. That's a lot easier for the user than having to type the entire name. Once the name is selected, it becomes part of the search field. So that's a lot like a checkbox. This name is now checked. I can remove it by clicking the X. Or I can add a new name. So the search bar seems like a simple text box. But it then does all these other complex things that are a hybrid of other form elements.