Let's discuss a few
specific concerns that you'll deal with when you as
the information architect, create the site
map for your site. Let's consider the number of clicks a user must
perform before they get to content and how clicking
compares to scrolling. We'll talk about
how many choices to offer and what to call them. When I started out as a web
designer in the early 2000s, I often heard about this rule that a user
should be able to access every piece of content on a site with just two clicks. Less clicking can obviously
benefit the user experience. Things can get
done more quickly. Remember, in those days, websites tended to
load slowly so that every extra page that had to
load slowed the user down. But today, should we still
assume that a lot of clicking always leads to a bad user
experience? I don't think so. Sometimes it might be wise
to present a series of well-structured pages instead
of one very complex page. To illustrate this, think about a site with many
levels of information. A dropdown navigation
that goes several levels deep allows the user to
navigate with very few clicks. For some sites that might
be the most appropriate. At other times, it might
be better to provide a simple main-level
navigation with links to individual landing
pages for each section. There, you can list
the subsections with additional descriptions of
what the user can expect. Which one of these
options to choose could depend on your user's
level of familiarity with the content or how
often they need to access a specific piece of information that's located deep in
your site architecture. If they have to click
five times every time they need to access
an important page, they will hope that they had
some shortcut to get there. But a giant dropdown menu, as indicated on the left, can quickly overwhelm
users that are less familiar with
your site's contents. You see again that knowing a lot about your users
and looking back at the findings of
your strategy phase will make these
decisions easier. Another example
is complex forms. These could be presented
all at once on one long page, no
clicking required. Another way to
structure long forms is to ask a few
questions at a time. Look at the sketch on the right. Doesn't this seem a
lot more inviting than the onslaught of
form fields on the left? Let's say we're developing a website to help people
with their taxes. We could ask our users all
questions on one page, everything from their names and their occupation
and how much money they made and how
many kids they have, and on and on, all
on a single page. That would be similar to how
such forms are structured on paper but such forms are quite overwhelming
for most users. Since we're working
on a website, we could easily split
up the form into many different screens and start simply by asking,
what's your name? It might take dozens of screens to get
through everything, but each screen is
now quite manageable. Most users will have
a better experience. But let's say you
are a tax expert and you know exactly which form
field you need to change, then it could get quite
cumbersome to click through dozens of pages to find
that specific field. To reiterate,
having the users do a bunch of clicking
isn't necessarily bad if it allows them to access information in
a very structured way. It's only bad if it's
cumbersome and repetitive. Clicking versus scrolling
deals with a similar concern. There are some
simple sites where all the information
is just on one page. There's actually a
whole category of websites called
one-page websites. On those sites, you
don't click much at all. Instead, you scroll. Let me stress at this
point that there's absolutely nothing
wrong with scrolling. The web's very
foundation is based on the fact that
websites can scroll so don't be afraid of designing
long pages where not all the information is
located "above the folds". You might still encounter clients who are
concerned about this. They might tell you
that they know for a fact that users
hate scrolling. It's up to you to
educate your clients. Think about the most
popular websites, Amazon, Google Search, news sites there is a lot of scrolling involved in
navigating these sites. In fact, scrolling is often
easier than clicking, especially for users that are on a laptop with a trackpad
or on touchscreen devices. Think about a slide
show of images. If you build the interface
around having to click little arrows to
advance the slides, that's actually more
difficult to navigate than scrolling through a page
that includes all images. Let's continue with
the question of how many choices to
present to the user. Here's something that I
have mentioned before, this idea that the
human brain can hold about 7 plus minus 2 items
in short-term memory. That's nine items max. Once you add more than
nine items to a list, 10,11,12 we'll likely
have forgotten what the first item was and can't make an easy
decision anymore. What does that mean for our
information architecture? We should limit the
amount of choices we present at one time to
five to nine items. This is a good rule of thumb for designing a main navigation. If you have more content, your challenge will be
creating a smaller amount of main categories that
each have subcategories. Here's an almost scary example
of information overloads. Look at the website of Chafee College as
it looked in 2018. It's completely overwhelming
to make a decision here. There's so much going on. Contrast this with the
redesign as it looks today. Now there is a much more limited
set of options to choose from and there is a sense of clarity and sanity.
What a relief. The options that were
previously displayed all at once on the home
page are still accessible. They have been moved into
four large drop-down menus. Lastly, we have the question about what to call the choices. It's important to create clear and unambiguous labels that your target
audience understands. A user doesn't want
to guess what might happen when they click
on a navigation item. You want them to
be confident that they will find what
they're looking for. However, often a competing goal is that you want to convey a certain tone or personality to engage
your users emotionally. Language is great at
tone and personality, so you could create labels that are unique and not generic, but that can sometimes create friction if clarity suffers. Let's look at a few examples. Let's say we're including
a blog on our sites. We could just call it
blog and be done with it. It's a pretty well-known
term and users will expect it to be that part of the site where regular updates, articles, and images are posted. But it's also a pretty broad
and slightly boring label. Can we come up with something
more unique and specific? Here are some other options; news, stories, what's happening? The latest. There's
a website called slate.com and their blog
is called The Slatest. Pretty clever, right?
The blog for Calarts, the college I'm teaching at, is called 24700s because this is part of the
address of the school. If you're working on a
snotty punk rock websites, maybe their blog
could be called WTF. That's not appropriate
for most websites, but it could be quite
appropriate for some. Again, much depends on
your target audience. Here's another one,
shopping carts. That's a pretty standard term, but it's not the only one. What about just cart or
bag or bin or basket? Bill, haul, or truck? Again, it depends on the context of the project
you're working on. Haul might be great
for a bookstore, as in book haul. Truck works well for
building materials such as concrete or rocks that will
be shipped with a truck. Bill might work well
for websites that offer services or registrations
because in the end, you'll pay the bill. Case in point, once
a year when I renew my car's registration
on the website of the California Department
of Motor Vehicles, I'm reminded that shopping cart isn't always the most
appropriate label, although its genericness should
make it uncontroversial. But when I pay my
car registration, it just feels weird to add something to a
shopping cart as if I was on an e-commerce website making joyful impulse purchases. Not to mention that there is also a continue shopping link. See how language can
really miss the mark? Here is one that made me
smile from a website that sells landscaping materials
like rocks and soil. This site has some
serious aesthetic issues. It's firmly stuck
in the late '90s, but they created a button
called Add To Truck, and their shopping cart
icon is also a truck. That's a fun surprise
and appropriate since your order will be
delivered on a big truck. How about the about us page? Here are some other options. It could be shortened
to just about or be more precise as
in about our company. Long labels though, will be more difficult to deal with
in a navigation bar. You could be super
brief and just call the section us or depending
on the type of site, it could be team or
behind the scenes, our crew or homies,
you get the idea. Lastly, here's a question about which pronoun to
use on your labels. One option is not to
use a pronoun at all, as in simply accounts. But that's not all that
friendly or specific, is it? Do we call this section your
account or is it my account? I'll let you spend a
little bit more time with this interesting conundrum. Here's a great post about just this question that
I'd like you to read next.