Let's quickly spend some time talking
about the symbols that we use to create a sitemap. In the last video, you were already
introduced to most of them. In fact, the sitemap vocabulary that we
will use in this course is pretty limited. A simple rectangle represents
a page on our site. You're probably familiar
with the idea of a web page. Just think about an about page or the
contact page you will find on many sites. Usually there will be a unique URL for
each page, but for some sites, the idea of a page can
seem a little outdated. It stems from the early days of the web
when we were navigating from one static page to another. So today the term view or
content node might be more appropriate for sites that rely heavily on
dynamic content being loaded. Think about Google Maps, for example. It's hard to think about that site
as having individual pages, but there are certainly a number
of distinct views which can be visualized with a simple
rectangle on a sitemap. A page stack is indicated with
three overlapping rectangles. You will use a page stack to account for
multiple pages of similar content. Think about product detail pages,
news items or blog posts. These pages will often also
share a common visual template. Usually there will be a landing page
with links to the individual items of the page stack. We saw that in our previous example
with a blog landing page linked to blog detail pages. Sometimes it can be helpful to indicate
special content in your sitemap. Are you including a link to a file,
maybe a PDF? Then use the shape on the left
to indicate file content. You might even put a little icon inside
to indicate what kind of file it is. Use a special form icon to indicate forms. Connectors tell us how
pages are connected. Simple lines indicate that there is
a link from one page to another. Here we see that there will be a link
from the Homepage to the About Us page. This also means that you can get back
to the Homepage from the About page. You can use a dotted line to indicate
that a connection is based on a specific condition. Here, for example, a user can only navigate to
the My Account page if they are logged in. You can also use arrows to indicate
a sequence of pages that must be completed in order. In this example,
the user must go from the shopping cart to the billing info before being
able to go to the shipping info. There's also a connector that indicates
that navigating back to the previous page is no longer possible. You simply add a vertical line
perpendicular to the connector. And lastly, there is a more complex
structure to indicate decision points. This is a helpful tool when you
are trying to map out paths in the user's journey that depend on certain conditions. This example here is for a login routine. We have a login page with a login form,
and from there we have a decision point. If the user's credentials
are entered correctly, the user proceeds to the My Account page,
otherwise, an error page is displayed and the user can navigate back to
the login page to try again. To make this example even more complex and
more realistic, we'll also include a password recovery option for
users who forgot their login information.