Let me walk you through an
example sitemap process, so I can explain how
to get from a list of content and functionality
to a sitemap. Here we have a bunch
of content items for an e-commerce
site. What a mess. As a first step, let's sort these items into sections
of related contents. Better. Now we have
all things that belong to products and the shopping
experience on the left. Items about the company are
collected in the middle. Information about contacting and visiting the company
is on the right. We have a few other
things, like FAQs, cart, checkout, and blog as standalone sections. Next, let's find some
umbrella terms that can describe these content
buckets that we created. Here, we have shop, FAQ, shopping carts, abouts, blog, and contact. These labels will form the
main navigation of the sites. The links that you'll find
on top of every page. Note that we don't yet
have a section for the credits and the
privacy policy. Well, these pages,
while important, don't necessarily need to be accessed from the
main navigation. Let's add these links to
the footer of every page. Let's take another look
at the contact section. The last two items, directions and opening times, could fit under contact. Visiting a store can be somewhat described as a form
of contacting, but it's not very
precise, is it? Let's be more explicit and create another
section called visit. This new section emphasizes that this online store also
has a physical location, since users will see the word visit right away in the
primary navigation. Now that we have a label
for each of our sections, let's take a closer look at
all the content items and decide if we actually need
individual pages for each. Here I isolated all of the content that doesn't
need a separate page. The product descriptions
and images and customer reviews will live
on the product pages. The about text will go on
the about landing page. The employee directory
can be on our team page. Contact info and
social media links can all be listed on
the contact page. We don't need sub-pages
for the visit page. We can list directions and
opening times on one page. We cleaned this up quite a bit. Now let's build our sitemap. We'll start with the
main level items. They go across the top. But what about the order? The order should
make logical sense and also indicate importance. We might decide that it's
more important to list the visit section first and to list about
towards the end. Also, it's a convention to list the shopping
cart link last. Speaking of the shopping carts, it's the only navigation
link that has two words. Let's be consistent and
rename it to just cart. There we go. Our final
main level, navigation. Now we can add all of our secondary content
we determined earlier. Here's everything that goes
into the shop category. Note that featured products and products both linked to
product detail pages. The icon for these looks
a little different. It's a page stack to
indicate that there will be many different
product detail pages. The same happens
with the blog posts. There are many different
blog post pages that are all linked from
the blog landing page. Here's the info that needs to go under the about section, and the cart will link
to the checkout process. What are the steps of
the checkout process? Here they are. Note that instead
of simple lines, we have arrows here to indicate a sequential order
of these pages. A user won't be able to
advance to the billing info, let's say, before they
enter their shipping info. Also, there is a
horizontal bar on the last arrow to indicate that once you reach the
order confirmation page, you can't go back to the
previous confirm order page. We also have to include the two items that we are
putting into the footer. Since they will be on
every single page, we just list them separately on the bottom of our sitemap. To wrap things up, let's
make another connection from the product detail
pages to the shopping cart. After all, the user
will be able to add products to the carts. We are almost done. There's only one
little detail missing. In fact, it's not
actually so little. We're missing an important page. Can you spot which one? It's the page that most
people will land on when they visit the sites,
the home page. We will connect lines
from the home page to all the other primary
navigation items. There you have it, a
beautifully organized sitemap. Remember where we started? With a wild list
of requirements. It took a little work to structure this
into a meaningful, logical, and cohesive whole. In the next video, I will
talk a little bit more about the different elements
that make up a sitemap.