I'll finish this lesson with
an example site map, again, from my work for the CalArts
Art School Project Archive. Let's look at a few things
here in a little more detail. You see that everything
starts with the home page and that there are a bunch of pages linked from the home page. The Projects landing page will list all projects that
are included on the site, while the Artists landing
page lists all artists. Underneath these,
in the lower rights are two page stacks. Each project will
have a detailed page and each artist two. Again, the page stacks represent the fact that
there will be many, many detailed pages, one for each project and one
for each artist. Also look at the connections. The Projects page links to
the project detail pages, the Artists page links to
the artist detail pages. Both of these detail
pages also have a connection because
the user can navigate from each individual
artists detail page to that artist's
projects and vice versa. Each project links to the
corresponding artist. We decided to feature certain
projects on the home page, that's why there is
a connection from the home page to the project detail pages to indicate this. Then on the left side,
you see four pages for more secondary information
about Submissions, Contact, and Site Credits. We can divide this site
map into three sections. First, the Home page, the Projects and Artists pages. These will make up the
primary navigation. Then we have the detail pages and then the
secondary navigation. Let's add another little detail. Since we already know that
the items that are listed on the Projects and
Artists landing pages can be searched and filtered,
let's indicate this. Now the site map includes
even more information. What's most important is
that your site map is visually clean and
easily understandable. Add as much info as necessary to communicate
the structure of the site and account for the content that will
have to be included. One final question
you might have is, what software should you
use for creating site maps? Well, any software
that lets you draw a bunch of rectangles
and lines will do, so I'll leave this
decision up to you. The site map you're looking
at was created in Figma. Other tools like Whimsical and
Miro are good choices too. I have also used Adobe Illustrator and
InDesign in the past. You could even use pencil and paper and start out sketching your site map by hand before creating the final
version on the computer.