In addition to
building the prototype from a set of
pre-existing components, there are two other options
we'll look at here. One of these options is to use the artwork or designs
that we've already built, and we can find
some easy ways to make these static
designs interactive. The benefits of this approach are that it's fast to build, it looks like your design, and there's often very little
additional design work to do plus, it's going to be good for
testing both UI and UX. That said, you might
find you need to build a few more user interface
components to get your static designs to work with your
prototyping software. You might also find that
your designs don't look exactly like whichever operating
system you want them to live in but this might be the best and easiest
approach because it builds on a lot of the work
that you've already done. Let's take some of
the static screens that were developed earlier from the lost PET app and see how those might
work in this scenario. I can import the
entire screen designs, not one piece at a time, but as a whole static image. From the start, I've got a
user interface that looks quite finished and quite
specific to my app, but I'm going to need to fake
some kind of interactivity so that I can make a
semi-functioning digital prototype. Most prototyping software
works in the same way where you can easily connect
one page to a target page, and that's basically
forming a link so that when the user
taps on the first page, it'll take them to
the second page. It's essentially the equivalent
of the arrows that we would draw between our
screens on our site map. This might help with a
very basic prototype, but there's not really
much detail in terms of defining specific
interactive areas. I'm really just moving
from screen to screen. I'm not really
interacting with any of the interface elements
specifically. Because all of my
interface elements are in one static image, I'll have to fake
that interactivity. I could draw a box
over one of my icons, for instance, and set the fiddle of that
box to be invisible. I could then set a
target where you would go to if you clicked
on that icon. Instead of the whole
screen being interactive, it's now just that
one icon that's interactive and I can continue this process with a series of transparent boxes linking to all the different screens
that I might need to go to. With the software I'm using, I have some choices over
the kind of transition and the length of the transition from screen to screen as well. If I want to be more accurate about the area that's active, I can draw a specific
shape that relates to whatever the active area
is in the background. Here, I'm drawing a circular
area over a circular icon, and I could connect that to
any screen that I wanted. Right now, I just have three artboards in
my file that reflect three different
screens but if I were really making this app,
I'd have many more. I can now use a preview window to see how my
connections are working. If I'm on the first screen
and I move the cursor over the icon where I
designated an active area, you can see that the cursor changes and if I
click on that icon, it takes me to the second screen and if I move my cursor
over the Claim button, it'll change to let
me know that it's live and if I click on it, it'll take me to the
third screen and uses whatever
transition I've chosen. From here, I can continue
forward by clicking on the active green icon and get back to
the first screen. We've made a very
simple interactive loop between our three artboards. If we want, we could have many interactive
areas on one screen. On the first screen,
the cat icon could take me to the cat screen, the parrot to a parrot screen, and the dog icon
to a dog screen. With this approach, we can
build out a network of connections that simulate interactivity for the prototype. Let's look at our third option, which involves
rebuilding our artwork within the digital
prototyping software. The benefits here are that it would look
like your design, and you can also
make it look like whatever operating system
it's working within. It's going to be a
closer simulation to your finished app
and this approach gives you a prototype
that's going to be good for testing both UI and UX. In many ways, it's a
more refined version of the approach we just looked at, but the downside is, it's going to take you
a lot longer to build it this way but it's
going to give you more control over the interactivity and design
detail in your prototype, ultimately, making
it feel more real. Let's look how this
approach might work with our lost PET example. I can use some of my existing
user interface components, but I'd be redrawing
them or importing them piece by piece into my
prototyping software. But I'm not starting
from scratch because I've got the components, and I've got a blueprint
for the layout. One of the things I like about this approach is that
I can mix my artwork for the app with
the system artwork to make it look a
little bit more real, even though I'm not going to make these system elements work. Just the fact that I have them there makes you think
the app is live. I could also use other
standardized interface elements, and these are available
from free UI Kits so I'm going to mix some of the Apple OS components into my app. I'm trying to get
the believability from the existing OS system, but the personality and originality of my app
from my own designs. I could also decide that I
don't want to use any of the pre-existing components
and that every piece that I'm going to put into this prototype is going to be designed by me. But even in that case, some pre-existing familiar
visual components can really help the
believability of your prototype. If I want users to sign in
with Google or Facebook, it really helps to have
recognizable icons there. It makes the app feel more
believable, and authentic. I think this strategy
helps you build the legitimacy and
familiarity that you need so that the user believes that your
prototype is really a fairly fully
functioning app and the more screens that you build using your own
design components, the more the personality of your app is going
to come through. We've now looked at three
different approaches for you to build your prototype. Which way you choose to
work might depend on what kind of UI/UX
designer you really are. Think a little bit about
where your focus is. You might want to use
pre-existing components, if you're a less visual
person and more UX-focused. If you're more visual and concerned with leveraging
existing designs, you probably want to use
your existing artwork and work on top of it to
create interactive areas. If you're visual and
want the best of both, you'd probably want to
rebuild your designs. I'm from a UX background, but I also care about
getting the UI details right so I'm going to work
using the last model, and I'm going to rebuild my designs inside my
prototyping tool.