In this segment we're going to look at
some ideas surrounding invisible and visible user interfaces. And what we're really looking at here is
a notion that by reducing the graphic content of an interface and trimming
it down to just its bare essentials, you can create a much faster
level of accessibility for the user to get to the content. And this is the strategy that we see
in contemporary interface design. And it's fairly ubiquitous at the moment,
and for good reason as well. So some of the advantages of having
a slimmed down, scale down interface, are, first of all,
that is very simple and direct. So it's very easy for the user to understand;
there's nothing that gets in the way. And while there nothing that
gets in the way visually, there's also nothing that gets
in the way in terms of meaning. A high level of clarity creates
a low level of user mistakes. A simple interface can
also serve many purposes. It can be adoptable by a wide number
of people for a wide number of uses. And simplicity and homogeneity can create
a familiar and predictable interface across a number of different bodies of
content or different kinds of experiences. Above all,
simplicity builds logic which means that pretty much anybody can figure out how to
use this interface very, very quickly. So what's against these ideas? What could possibly be bad about them? Well, the bottom line is that they
can be a little bit homogenous. They can be a little bit too familiar and
too predictable, perhaps too unambiguous and too logical. So the end result can often
be that the experience, even when the content is interesting,
the experience is boring. I'm not sure if I want all my digital
content to look the same way. I'm sure that buying cool new shoes and getting a root canal should
have the same interface. So let's look at the other
side of the equation. What happens when we think about
the user interface that is more graphic, that is more entertaining, engaging? A much more rewarding experience,
and much more idiosyncratic. Where are the benefits in that system and
where are the downfalls? The benefits seem mostly to be,
not in the content itself, but in the experience of
accessing that content. So is the experience of getting to
that hard information, engaging, or entertaining, more so
then with the generic interface? Do I end up with a much more rewarding
experience, ordering my pair of shoes to an experiential website,
versus a more generic functional website? And does the value of that experience
create something that is more brandable or marketable? Something that is idiosyncratic or
individual and might be the difference between me buying my pair of shoes
from one website or another? The condensed rationale here is
that the experience has value, so you might be getting the same product,
but the experience is the thing
that gives it worth. So what are the downsides of
a less generic interface? Well, while that may be entertaining,
it can also obstruct content. Sometimes all of those bells and whistles can get in the way of
what you actually want to do. And while your interface
experience might be very engaging, there are going to be times where you just
want to get the thing you want to get. You want to get straight to
the content without wasting any time. And that lack of speed and functionality can turn an engaging
experience into a frustrating one. And while this interface might offer
opportunities for more graphic design and to be more easily brandable, it could also create an aesthetic
that can date much more rapidly. So instead of ending up with a cool
interface that is unlike anybody else's, you end up with something that's
dysfunctional and rather unnecessary. You can end up with an interface
that creates frustration for the user, because it obstructs
them getting to the content. That's the whole reason that
they're there in the first place. So there are pros and cons to both
the hyper-functional interface and the hyper-stylistic interface. And as with many of the aspects of
interface design that we look at, and examine, it's not a case of
one thing versus the other. It's more a case of,
how do you use these aspects together? So how do you have both speed and style? There are no absolutes here. It's about evaluating your content and seeing what kind of
approach is appropriate. There might be times where you
want a very functional website with very little aesthetic
distraction going on. I don't care so much what my database or search engine looks like,
I care about how it works. But there are other instances
where this is reversed. If I'm buying clothes or furniture I might
be much more interested in the style and the aesthetics of the site or an app and the experience of it than
I am in the functionality. Let's look at a couple of
examples that mix function and aesthetics in different ways. This is a project by one of my students
that's a bird watching app called Aviary. Due to the content and the audience,
it needs to be very, very functional. But that doesn't mean
it has to look boring. The overall design is clean and simple. It follows a lot of interface conventions
that the user will be very familiar with. So there's no big learning curve when
somebody would come to use this app. It feels logical, functional, and
familiar all at the same time. But it also have enough design elements
in there for it to feel idiosyncratic and individual also to feel quite stylish and
upmarket. The color palette and customized icons
really give it its own identity. So while the design is very clean,
familiar, and functional there's enough of an individual voice
there to really give it some character. In this second student project, we can see an inversion of that balance
between the pragmatic and the poetic. Here the emphasis is much more
on creating a novel interface, design and esthetics take the lead here. And any kind of normalized functionality
has just gone out of the window. But that doesn't mean it doesn't work or
have its own logic as an interface. What it does mean, is that the user may
have to spend a little more time with it in order to figure it out and
how it works. But there's a sense of reward there. The app is about adventurous places
to eat with unusual food, so it makes sense for it to have a much
more adventurous and unusual interface. This interface works because it has
a great relationship with its content. There's a refrain made
popular by Golden Krishna, that the best interface
is no interface at all. And I don't think that's always true. The best interface is the one that has
the best relationship to its content, the one that's the most sympathetic. And sometimes that does mean that it's
invisible and sometimes it's not. The bottom line is,
the best interface is the best interface. And there is not one solution to that
because an interface has to deal with so many different kinds of content. So the best interface is
one that is visible and invisible at the same time,
but in the right proportions. And those proportions are going to change
depending on what kind of content they're being an interface for.