So far, I've come up with an idea for my App. I've developed that idea, and I've thought about an audience. Now, I've got to give it a name. In my visual elements of user interface class, I tried to map out many of the areas where UI/UX takes place. The naming an identity part of the process is highly specialized. In our diagram, it lives over to the left-hand side, where we're developing content, ideas, and thinking about marketing. While we might call it branding and identity, we're really looking at something more specific here, because we're just looking at how to use language, how to use words. So, we're not branding in terms of a visual identity, but we're branding with language. So, let's look at three different places where we can use words as a branding tool. The most obvious, is in the name of our App. We're going to have to name our App something. But we might also need a tagline, and the mission statement. So, let's look at how these three things differ. Your name is the smallest thing that you're going to have to deal with. It's normally only a word or two. Your tagline is often a short sentence, whereas your mission statement can be a few lines or paragraph. As well as being different in scale, these three pieces of language are also different in terms of their goals. You want your name to be memorable, original, appropriate, to have the right tone or mood, and have the right sound to it. Apart from our logo, your name is going to be the most succinct thing that's going to brand your App, and you're going to need it if you're going to make a logo type as well. While you want your name to be memorable and original, most importantly, it's got to be a good fit for your product. Your tagline is an expansion of that, where you want it to be catchy, succinct, to be a summary of what your App does. But like your name, you want it to have the right tone or mood. It offers you more language to work within just your name, a soundbite, rather than just a single word or two. Your tagline could be a clever description of what you do, or a phrase that sums up your philosophy. Your mission statement is longer still, a few lines or a paragraph. It gives you a chance to get much more descriptive about what your App does. You could talk about the ambitions, or the achievements of your App. But like the other two items we're looking at, you still need to have the right tone, and the right mood. That's what all three of these things have in common. They need to work as a set. They need to all be related to each other, not just in terms of their content, but in terms of their philosophy, and how they use language. Again, tone is very important. We can take our familiar strategy of simultaneous focus and expansion. We could make a mind map to get all the language out of our head, but then we'd need to pick out what are the relevant keywords from all of those things that we've got in front of us. Like everything else, it's part of a process. In general, the language that we use for our naming might be much more creative, and much more connotative. Whereas the language we use for our mission, might be much more factual, much more descriptive. This process and using language in this way, is very common in graphic design, particularly for branding and identity projects. Here's an example from my graphic design course on Coursera, where you had to invent a company, and create an identity for it. I invented a startup company that had a food truck selling snails. I made up a whole backstory. But to get to grips with the language that I might use in my naming process, I made a mind map that explored all of the possible areas connected to my backstory. I looked at French culture, and French cuisine. I looked at the 1968 Paris student protests. I looked at French automobile design, and French architecture. From this web of words, I came up with three adjectives that I thought would describe my company. Having a clear set of criteria that you want to communicate can be really helpful, when you're making an identity design, or when you're naming something. If your adjectives are successful and accurate, then you can use them as a sounding board to test any name that you come up with against them, but you need to have a name first in order to test it. So, let's look at some strategies for naming. We've already decided that naming our App, is much more of a creative process than writing our mission statement, which is more descriptive. So, it makes sense that we would take slightly different strategies for both of these. Our naming might take strategies like using mythology, thinking what a contemporary way of using language is. Perhaps, something comes from science, or history, or fiction, whereas our mission statement, would be much more concise, much more descriptive, and pragmatic. So, let's go through these naming strategies one by one, and look at some real world solutions. We're going to use both App names, and company names as our examples. If I asked you to think about a branding example that uses mythology for its name, I wonder what you come up with. I'm pretty sure you'll come up with the same example as me. Nike, the Greek goddess of victory, and well-known Oregon shoemaker. There's also Pandora, who received many gifts from the gods, including the gift of music. Although there's also the negative connotation of the evil stored in Pandora's box. You could look at contemporary language, and contemporary phrases, and think about how to combine those. You could use slang, misspellings, and colloquialisms, to create a new word that has some contemporary cultural meaning. That might make it young and fun, or you could take a more scientific approach, and have something that's more mathematical, or more serious. Google manages both. By being a misspelling of googol, you can take pieces of the language like Microsoft, who were developing software for microprocessors. Although as technology advances, your name might get left behind. You could also take a historical approach to naming. Is Apple computers, a homage to Apple Records or does it relate to Isaac Newton's revelations about gravity? Almost likely, that it was just the fact that Steve Jobs visited an apple orchard. Historically speaking, Bands wants for Hearst in garages. It's funny that the digital software they use to make music now, is on a computer, and not in the garage anymore, or your name could be totally fictional, totally invented. What does Spotify actually mean? The connotative meaning of words, and the sound of them, the poetics of the actual language, can be very powerful, and if you make your name up, it doesn't come with any baggage. There are lots, and lots, of different approaches you can take to naming. You could think about how to combine a couple of these together, or just use them singly. We could look at combinations of different words, we could look at very descriptive, or didactic strategies, names that are nonsense, or names that just have a really great sound to them. Combining two shorter words into a longer one, is a very common strategy. It allows you to reference two known and stable things, and put them together to suggest the third thing, which is precisely what your App or company does. So, we have Grub Hub, Net Flix, and of course, Face Book, better known as GrubHub, Netflix, and Facebook. But sometimes, the two words might already exist as a pairing together, and have a more didactic meaning. So, while open table for example, works with our combination strategy, it's also a very didactic expression of what that App does. But a didactic name, is often not the most exciting one. Sometimes, we go in the opposite direction, and try and think of a nonsense name, or invent a word out of nowhere, or we could think much more about how a word sounds in relationship to what it represents. To me, Twitter actually sounds like the noise made by a million people sending short messages, and texts. So, there's a wide range of things that you could do to help you come up with some ideas for your name. On the other side of our diagram, is our mission statement. The way that we use language here, is very different. We're really looking at something that's much more concise, descriptive, and pragmatic. We're not going to look at this so closely, because it doesn't really affect your App so much, but it can help you to write a fake mission statement, as a backstory. You can use it as a tool to help you figure out what your App might be called. Traditionally, mission statements look at the history, function, benefits, and goals, of a company. Mission statements are a condensed, and precise description of what a company wants to do, but could easily be applied to what an App wants to do as well. So, here is Coursera's mission statement for example, and it makes it very clear what their goals are, who they work with, and what they offer. Their description fulfills our criteria of being concise, descriptive, and pragmatic. Earlier, we talked about our name, tagline, and mission statement, being connected together, and we also looked at how the three things are different. In terms of scale, and in terms of tone, the tagline falls somewhere in the middle of the spectrum. It has to be longer, and have more content than your name, but not be as long and dry, as your mission statement. The tagline is the thing that advertises your name, advertises your brand. It succinctly gets at the heart of what your company, or your App does. Whether that's thinking differently in the case of Apple, or out-smarting traffic together, in the case of waze, or broadcasting yourself, in the case of YouTube. As before, it's always a good idea to check out the competition. So, if I look at my App for using up my ingredients in my kitchen, I can see what other people have done already. I can see how other people have named their Apps. Looking at the competition, can be really useful, because you don't want to come up with the name that's very similar to something that already exists. But you might also find some strategies you hadn't thought of that you can use with your own language, and come up with your own original name. If you're stuck, there's another option available to you, and that's to use automated generators. Some of these are free online, where you can enter topics, or parameters, or words, and they'll automatically generate a number of different combinations of words for you. Most of the time, they're pretty useless, and I'd advise you to try and outsmart the automated. But every now and then, they might come up with something really great. Here are some automated names for my leftover food App. While I'm not sure any of them are 100 percent right, they might give me some ideas that form the basis of the name that I do choose or, they might help me figure out my mood and tone. Cuisinely, is pretty serious, whereas PopGut is pretty fun.