It's a Zz Plant,
but you're right. This one? Good to know. I should get a Zz top
record right next to it. That would be really cool. I'm here with Chris Manik. Chris, hello. Hi, Roman. How's it
going? Nice to see you. It's going well, it's
nice to see you too. Chris is an UX designer. You recently got into the field and that's what
we'll be talking about today. We do have an interesting
story how we met, but we'll get to that
in just a second. Why don't you start telling me a little bit about
your personal backstory, your life journey until you got the impulse to study
UX and get into the field. For sure. Basically I
was a lifelong creative. I was a former music
producer and a DJ. I did that in most of my '20s
and I was lucky enough to travel around the
globe playing shows as an electronic music artist. That's what I did for
a really long time. I think during these years I really developed
a sense of self and I grew a lot in terms of just not only personally
but within my own profession. I got to meet a
lot of connections and I had a lot
of conversations. One of the themes I also
noticed during those years was that a lot of my fellow
musicians and artists, they were doing multiple things. Maybe they were graphic
designer and then a DJ, or maybe they were a
performer but then they were also doing something like photography or web
design or something. I think that
eventually I started thinking about maybe what
I wanted to also do. I arrived at this point
in my life where I took a pen and paper and I created this mind
map and I said, hey, here are some things
I'm interested in, how can I achieve something
along these lines, and what would it take? Eventually, I committed
myself to going back into school and came
across Coursera. That's exactly where
I started and began this journey into
becoming a UX designer, UI designer, and web designer. I was asking those questions
of the why behind things, and I would look at things differently and I
eventually took the graphic design course from Coursera through
CalArts as well. Eventually, through this time, I landed on becoming a web
designer specifically. I think that that was
probably the best way to describe this long journey
of where I'm at today. Where I do think I started in a slightly different part of the creative ballpark and
I landed on this part of the creative ballpark
which is more of a designer and a problem
solver, so to speak. What year would
that have been when you did your mind map? This was probably about
four or five years ago. Because originally
even at that time, one of the other
things that I was exploring was also maybe
going back to teach. I think we had that
discussion as well, that I was doing
some instructing as a music technology
instructor and working with students with like Ableton and music
production software. Then right next to that sat this path to being
a web designer, what that could look like, and eventually
uncovering the field of user experience and
user interface design. Did the pandemic play a role
in your really focusing on the UX stuff or did you
start before like 2020? Really good question. Yeah, it definitely accelerated
it for sure. I had been exploring
other interests and hobbies that I
could maybe turn into a profession prior
to that for sure. But I think once that landed, it did really, I think, affect the music
industry overall. At that point, I
had already been thinking of other things that
I would be interested in. I think I was at a point in my life at that point where
maybe being a musician wasn't as appealing to me
and I do think that it almost was like a new
door that had opened up. I tried to make the best of a really tough situation
as it was for many. I think that having that
free time and all of that extra time to just read and look into other projects
and what's possible was another inspiration
and I really needed it. I just dove headfirst into
this particular field. Here we are today. What's so interesting, I think, about you is that you didn't go back to school as
in a traditional way, but you built your
own curriculum. You started with Coursera, the UX/UI class that
I and Michael teach, the graphic design course, and you took other
courses as well. What are those? Yeah, correct. I
did a few courses on Udemy as well, that platform, and then I actually
just went onto YouTube, as a lot of us can do, just to DIY problem solve like, hey, how would I do
something like this? There's going to be
a tutorial for it. I think, just a combination between those three platforms, Coursera being the advent
to all of this, I think, really, as you said, helped me curate this
very specialized track that I was trying to put
together for myself. Webflow was another one. Webflow, for making
the websites. But it takes quite some
discipline, I would imagine. Yeah, it definitely
requires dedication and this spirit of, hey, this isn't necessarily
going to be easy, but also at the
same time, I think, if you challenge
yourself enough I do think that, hopefully, you come out as a better person on both a professional and a personal
level after that point. Again, to your question earlier, I do think that in that time, having all that free time
around the pandemic, I do think had helped. But I was very steadfast in making sure I had a
schedule for myself. I treated it like I was
actually back in school. Between these hours, my phone was on focus mode, or is in the other room and I had to make sure that
I was reading the books, I was checking out
this person's post on LinkedIn looking at
their recommendations for this article and on Medium, and then I'd hop back into Coursera and I'd
complete my classes. I do think that you
need that structure. At least I do, for sure That's super inspiring. But then we get to December
of 2020 and we both meet. That's why we're
talking today, really. Yes. Let me set it up and then you tell it from
your perspective. I remember I was hiking
with my friend, Jen Hutton, who coincidentally
was the person at CalArts who produced this Coursera class
the first time around. We were on the top of some lonely mountain
away from everything, and we stumbled into two people in the
middle of nowhere, and you take it from there. No, it was one of those
serendipitous moments. I really don't think we've talked about this
a couple of times. I don't think I've
ever experienced anything this random before. To paint the picture, it's the Angeles forest area here
outside of Los Angeles. There's hardly
anybody over there. It was, again,
pandemic times still. Again, less people were
hiking than normal. People were all wearing masks. Yeah. I remember
just walking by you, and for some reason,
and then at this point, I think I was on, I want to say maybe 75% of the course that
you were teaching, the UI/UX CalArts course. At this point, I think,
if I remember correctly, you taught the
first two classes, or was it the other way around? The second two, actually. The second two. I
think I was just about done with your first half, and for some reason, you were in my mind
in that sense, and I don't know how I had
picked you out in that sense. I walked right by, I
thought to myself, this looks like my professor. This looks like Roman that
I've been watching on Coursera on these videos for
the last couple of weeks. I don't even know what got in me in terms of just actually
speaking up and saying, hey, because I wouldn't
normally do that. I could be shy or I
could be quiet as well, and I was like, "Should
I say something?" Then I was like, "I'm
going to say something." I just took a chance and I said, "Hey, are you Roman? Do you teach this CalArts
class? You're professor there?" You said yes, and I
was like, no way, this is going to sound crazy but and then I explained that
I'm taking your course. I know you've had
tens of thousands of students and this is
such a random thing. Then we got to talking, and
I think we had a lot in common and we both found it
quite an interesting moment. We stayed in touch
and we met up, and you came to
CalArts and visited. Here we are talking. Cool. Totally. Chris, let's get a little
bit into your work. Maybe you can share
a few things. This is my website. As all
portfolio websites can be, it's a constant iteration. I've had like four different versions of this over the years, but this is where we are today. Some of my work
would be, of course, accessible and see
the work here. This is basically
where I have all of my recent projects laid out. One of the ones that
we'll eventually get to will be this
particular project. This work that I did was actually for Apple under the career
experience program. I work at Apple as a creative
within Apple retail. Basically, they have a program
where they hire within and so you can apply and have these real world
career experiences. Due to my background in UX, UI, and web design, I qualified and interviewed for this particular role
on this particular team, Apple retail app
design and this was just some general work
that I had done for them over the last six months. Most of that is, of course, under an NDA as well, so I won't be able to
share most of that. It is interesting that you got to Apple in
the real tail side, but you found your
creative niche there and then applied for
this program where they actually allowed you to
work as a UX designer, or allowed to invited
you for a period of time and you moved up to the
Bay Area for that, right? Yeah. I was up in Cupertino for the first half
of this year and I was lucky enough to have a really great
team that was very encouraging and they're
amazing people, and I learned a lot
from them as well as contributed right away due to my background and I think it was just
a really good fit. Just experiencing this type of design on that
enterprise level was really awesome and
I'm grateful for that. [inaudible] Yeah, for sure. It's also a different way, of course, as mentioned, when you're working
with a company on that type of a level will be different
than say, of course, if you're working as a
freelancer or if you're working for yourself and
you're taking on clients, it's going to be a different
type of constraints, different type of a
design situation. Speaking of freelance though, you do a lot of that. Let's talk about the
Josh Wink project. Yeah, definitely. This was a website that I had basically redesigned
for Josh Wink. He is a DJ and producer. He's pretty well known in terms of the field within
electronic music. He's been DJaying and
performing for well over, almost at this point
probably three decades now, and he is seminal
in his craft and has just a really good
relationship with myself. I actually released a lot of my earliest music on
his record label, so when he had found out that
I was doing web design now, and in particular
user experience and user interface design, and he was looking to
redesign his site. This was the perfect opportunity to continue and explore
what we could do with it. This was basically just
a responsive website that was created and
for the most part, the stakeholders here were,
of course, just the client, Josh himself, and then the general manager
of the record label. We just created this problem
statement just like, what would his fans want
to see on the website? It was very straightforward. I wouldn't consider
this necessarily a super complex project. But you still went
through the process. Students in this course, going through the
UX design process. You might be following
it to a T or you might have adapted it to your needs. But the idea of starting with the big questions,
what are we doing? Who is this for, et cetera,. Exactly, and that's imperative. I think that just in general,
when you're designing, you want to know why
we're doing this and what the problem
is from the start. It's not just, for example, hey, we want to redesign the site, that's great, but
what's the purpose? Are we trying to sell
tickets on the site? Are we trying to
increase merged sales? Are we just trying to spruce
up the portfolio and maybe highlight some recent
DJ performances or streaming or just social? It's a good segue to the first
portion of this which is, of course, the research
after the problem statement. Once we define that, we're going into
the research end of it where we looked
at other peers of his. In this case, we looked at
these two particular artists, Matthias Tanzmann
and Nicole Moudaber, and basically we looked
at what their sites are and noticed this very clean, very simplistic performers
site where we're prioritizing your social icons and giving
this darker mood to it, which again, resonates with
the music that he's doing, which is electronic
and techno music. I had interviewed a few, just local DJ friends of mine that live and are
familiar with Josh Wink, so they live in the same area as Josh as well as fans of
his music and so forth. After interviewing
them, I just created at least one persona where I could at least go
to and say, hey, this is the themes that we've
synthesized and extracted from this
straightforward research that we were doing here. Then of course, we began to just wireframe and design this low fidelity
stage here, of course. I just had sketched out a few very basic layouts here
of what I think would work. Again, we wanted to make sure that we had the socials
in the hero section, so right when a user
lands on the website. Then of course we have like
an about section where we had a couple of call to actions. We had a primary and
secondary and so forth. After some discussion,
we had eventually landed on the call
to actions here. Which I zoom in, it's a watch
me DJ and stream music, he felt that that was the two
most important ones here. It actually looked really
good on mobile as well so having this primary and
secondary is what we stuck with. In terms of where I
was designing this. It was in Adobe XD and Figma, so I was actually using both at the time that I was
designing this site. What are you using
now? Are you still, I guess Apple used Adobe
XD, is that right? They were actually using Sketch. I was using Figma for this time, meaning currently, I should say. But back then, I was using XD, I think,
a little bit more. That was actually
the first software I was using and getting
acquainted with for design. But yeah, there was
a reason behind a lot of the things that
we were deciding here. For example, even
this yellow here was pretty much pulled from the
Acid House Smiley Face, which is a very famous genre of music which was
created in the late '80s. Basically, this is
a picture of it. His music is synonymous
with this particular style. He's known as an acid house, acid techno artist anyway, so we wanted to make sure that I was pulling that
stuff as well. Then this was the outcome. As mentioned, we wanted to keep the hero section
pretty clean and just an image of him
with the social icons and a hamburger menu
at the top right. Then the primary, the
meat of the section, was the tour date
section so we had just incorporated his tour dates. That's all dynamic,
it syncs up with his bands in town as well, so that was the third
party site that he primarily sells
tickets through as well. That was a big reason
to include that on his website as well so
that user can go on there, purchase tickets for his shows. They could even request
a show somewhere. Then we actually had
a secondary page where his record label
was the feature, that's his record label. On this particular page, our primary and secondary call
to actions was actually to submit a demo if you want
to release on his label, which is actually what I
did over 10 years ago, and then to see the
full catalog of the album recordings'
record label. That is great, and Chris, but I really like about the way you presented is
that you are so in depth, you can really send
a future client to this page and you can say, this is exactly
what I did and so you demonstrate that you know what you're talking
about, which is great. I know from experience, this takes a lot of
time to put this together and have it make sense. Yeah, it's true. It does take a lot
of time. Yeah. Well, to finish up, Chris, I have a few
more questions. You do a lot of freelance. How do you get your clients? That's a great
question. These days, so I'll start where
I'm at today, which is basically everything at this point is word of mouth. Because I've been doing this
for almost three years now. Again, thanks to your course, taking it all off for me, giving me the confidence, and sending me down
the right path of trying to figure out what this design
talk is all about. But I think initially, I had to prove myself, and I think that's something
that I do want to stress as well to students. I'm still a student, I think
we're all students and I think that this is
life in general, not just professionally or
personally, it's a race. It's more of a marathon
so we're trying to grow at every segment and
every new chapter that arises. I think a couple of years ago, it was much more
where I had to prove myself and I would take on work that I wanted to just challenge myself with
and improve my skills. Both hard skills, soft skills, and I think at this point, because I have almost
at this point, like 15 or so fully done websites over
the last three years, at this point, it's more
of a word of mouth thing. People know I've built up
enough of a client roster and a community where people know that this is
what I'm doing these days. I'll have a lot of inquiries based off of previous
projects like, hey, I saw you did this one thing
on this person's website, would you be able to
do something similar? I just think ultimately, everything takes time, so
you just have to be patient. The best reply would be that word of mouth and
your previous projects, that is your resume and that's the best version of
what you're presenting. Portfolio and eventually
this community of all your clients
will have been created and they'll talk and your network will be
your best salesperson. I'm glad you're
seeing your network because obviously
there is a reason why you're doing a lot of work for musicians because you're coming out of that scene and that
makes a lot of sense. I remember having a teacher
years and years ago, when I first started studying graphic design and he was always stressing getting
that first job, that first real job. Like someone that says, yes, I trust you. Hopefully here is a
little bit of money, and then you can be
like, I have done this. Then someone else
can look at it and see that you're for real because before
that first real job, it's a little hard to
point at anything other than student projects
which isn't nothing. But it is a little bit
of a different story; working on a project for yourself than
working for others. One hundred percent. Just to underscore
what you're saying, is I also think, and not just think, but
I know this for sure, that the career
experience opportunity that I had at Apple this year, directly related to
the freelance work that I was doing on
the side as well. Because when I had interviewed, I was able to show that I
had these websites that were real world projects that clients had come to
me for that I was completing in addition to
school work that I had done. I think that once you finish schooling or at least
are continuing to learn. I do think that analog to that, you want to make sure that you step out of your comfort
zone and you look to your network to begin
potentially real world projects. Whether it's for free or whether it's again, an
experiential thing. Use that to increase
the value of your portfolio and
your resume and everything because
you never know what opportunity will
come down the line. If you have those
real world projects, I do think it makes more of a statement for you
being a designer and the value that you could add
to that particular company or potential project or contract or whatever that
you are searching for. Last question for you. It feels like you're
constantly, as we are all, but you're especially
fine when I talk to you, you're constantly checking out one thing or another,
constantly learning. What are you excited about
learning next getting into? This is a great question. We've talked a little bit
about this in the past and I think I've
gone back and forth. But I actually was just telling my girlfriend
yesterday where I do think I might be jumping back into Coursera
again and learning. I think I'm going to
go back and learn to develop some more of the frontend developed
skills a little bit more. Because again, as
a UX web designer and then a Webflow developer, I can definitely achieve
the results I've achieved. But I do think that, I think as we all do, we
look at ourselves and say, hey, where can I improve? Or what are some
things that I would like to challenge myself on? I have been playing with this more frontend
development mindset a little bit and just diving into it and just developing those
skills a little bit more. Then I would also say that
I think I would like to try to get involved with some
of the mixed reality, like augmented reality
and extended reality, designing techniques
a little bit as well. I know that actually Apple on their human interface
guidelines and on their website, they actually have
quite a bit of really great information
that you can watch, and it's available to the public this year with the announcement
at WDC and whatnot. There's some really
fantastic resources of where things are going, especially with new products
that are coming in. Just trying to learn as much
of all of this as possible. I would say probably
those two places I think is where I might focus in the last half of this
year a little bit. Well, I'm intrigued to
see where this is going. It warms my heart a little
bit that you're like, I want to get into coding more because obviously that's
my background where I'm a designer developer and it's not for everyone,
doesn't have to be. But it gives you more power. It gives you the chance to do more things when you
develop your own designs. Chris, it was such a
pleasure talking to you. I wish you all the best. Thanks for sharing your
story and your projects. For sure. Thanks man. It was a pleasure as always. Thanks. Bye. Bye.