The homepage is often the very first page that your users will land on as they visit your website. So it's a pretty crucial page. Let's spend some time asking ourselves, what is the job of the homepage? How can the homepage help you achieve your goals? And what content should you include? Here are a few things that I think a homepage needs to deliver on. First, it should communicate the voice and the brand of your website. That is mostly achieved with visual design, so with colors and images and typefaces, et cetera. We'll have to wait until next week when we start the visual design phase to get to that. But remember that language also plays a big part in communicating a brand. And you can set the tone right on the homepage. Is your language friendly or reserved or authoritative or funny or irreverent? Do you use a lot of words or only a few? These are important questions to ponder during the wireframing phase. Second, the homepage should provide navigation options that take your users to the content of your site. The homepage is also a great place to introduce your product or your mission to people that are visiting for the first time. They might be completely unfamiliar with your site, so ask yourself what they need to know right away. Sometimes you only have a few seconds to convince a user to stay and explore further. Your homepage should answer the basic questions of what is this, what can I do here, where do I start? And lastly, you can use the homepage to show the user your content. That might be the latest blog post or a featured product or an upcoming event or a video explaining your service or a download button or a signup form, something that provides value to your users right away. So let's talk about what elements should be included on a homepage. All sites should include a logo or at least the title or name of the website. Remember, we talked about the user's question of where am I as a fundamental concern in the wayfinding lesson. You'll also want to include some sort of navigation. Both of these items usually end up in the header of the page. Then there are things that most sites will include on a homepage, like a tagline. That's a short and precise sentence that summarizes the mission of the website. A call to action is also a good idea. What is the most important thing you want your users to do? Pick up the phone and call you? Well, then provide a phone number right on the homepage. Sign up for a free trial? Then have a signup form on the homepage. Or do you want your users to find out more about your featured product? Then display a prominent learn more button. Most sites will also have a footer with secondary information such as address, additional links and copyright and privacy statements. And then there are a few elements that are maybes. A hero image, for example. That's a term for a big, often dramatic image that sets the mood for your site or shows off its products or services. Sometimes there are several hero images that are displayed in a slideshow. Some sites include a search function. And as I already mentioned, it's often helpful to show some actual content right away on the homepage. Let's check in with the Apple site for an example. Here we can see most of the elements I just talked about being employed right on the homepage. The logo, the navigation and a search function. There's also some featured content, a featured event and there are featured products. Each with a hero image, a tagline and very prominent calls to action. Learn more or buy. And then there is an extensive footer with additional links and legal information. Okay, we will now look at a lot of other examples to see what homepage strategies can be employed. Since we've already talked about navigation and footers in other lessons, I want to specifically focus here on the content area of the homepage. What goes here? In my own work, I have found that sometimes it's fairly easy to figure out what content should go on the homepage. At other times though, it seems that a site doesn't even need a homepage at all. So let's talk about specific strategies you can employ. Looking around the web, I have noticed certain distinct approaches that I categorize as follows. Palette cleanser, table of contents, featured content, call to action, narrative, fusion and none. These labels aren't an official agreed upon list or anything. I made them up because I think they're pretty descriptive. There are very likely additional categories. In fact, I invite you to think about other strategies that you would add here. Let's talk about each item in this list while looking at actual websites as examples. Some of these are sites that I have created myself. First up is the palette cleanser. Here, the homepage is used to set a tone or a mood. It provides the user a moment of pause before delving into the content of the site. It's a little bit like the cover of a book. It establishes an iconic visual introduction to the site. Here's the Schindler Lab website as an example, a site my studio designed. It's an online publication for a cultural institution and we decided to make a bold visual statement to set the tone. There is some introduction text as you scroll down and you can access the table of contents via a link. But the homepage mostly acts like a book cover for this publication. Here's the site for the construction company, Braunstruction. There are four links in the main navigation that will take you to the actual content of the site. The homepage though, uses much of the real estate for a beautiful image of a project that Braunstruction has worked on. This image, by the way, changes randomly every time the homepage is loaded. And one more, the website for Claret Cup, an architectural studio. The homepage makes a bold statement, not just in terms of color, a vibrant magenta, but also by displaying an ordinary tool used in construction really large. It's a rambunctious, funny, almost grotesque scene that tells you that this is no ordinary architecture firm. Table of contents is a strategy where the homepage consists of links that point to the content contained in the site. It's a bit like a table of contents in a printed magazine or a book. The Pioneering Women of American Architecture site provides a good example. This website showcases a collection of essays about women architects that made important contributions to the field. The homepage simply lists the names of all women. When you click on a name, you get to a detail page for the architects. You can also look at this list sorted chronologically based on the women's lifespans, and there is a pictorial view where the list is represented by an image. But again, this homepage acts like a table of contents. You see a list of everything that's contained in the site, and you can make a selection. The homepage of the CalArts project archive showcases one recent graduate at a time. So this is a table of contents too, but as a slideshow, the user can click on a name to see the person's project. The Craigslist homepage, and no, I didn't have a hand in designing this site, is another perfect example for the table of contents strategy. It's simply a list of many, many links of categories that will take you to the content of the site. Let's move on to the next strategy, featured content. Here, the homepage is used to display some actual content right away. This is great for blogs, news sites, and shopping sites where you'll want to showcase either featured content or the latest content. So for a site like the Washington Post, it makes absolute sense to show the very latest and most important news stories. It's pretty similar to how a traditional newspaper front page works. On Amazon's homepage, you see some featured products and product categories, and you'll see what's most popular. Or if you happen to be logged into your account, you get specific recommendations just for you based on previous searches and purchases. Here's a site that I recently launched for the Performance Art Museum. It's a new museum dedicated to performance art, and for now, they are concentrating on publishing reviews of performances. So the homepage consists entirely of excerpts of the reviews. A call to action is a singular action that you want the user to perform before leaving the site. That might be creating an account or downloading a file, starting a chat, or purchasing a product or service. Google is a curious case of a call to action homepage. Well, there's one singular thing to do here, search for something. Google doesn't show you any secondary content like the most popular website or the latest news or anything else that gets in between you and your search results. And it's probably a big reason why Google Search took over the world, even though it was one of the later search engines to enter the market in the late 90s. Here's another example, Facebook. Nothing to see on the homepage but sign in or sign up. I guess Facebook is so famous and ubiquitous that they don't even bother to tell the user why they should create an account. Uber's homepage is a little bit more complex when you scroll down, but when the homepage first launches, there's one giant call to action. Enter your location and your destination. Then we have narrative as a strategy for the homepage. Here, the homepage is used to explain or introduce the site's mission. This involves a lot of scrolling. Here are a few examples. On the Dropbox website, there is a prominent call to action on the top, but the rest of the homepage is a detailed narrative describing the features of the product. First, there is a lively animation. Then the question, what can you do with Dropbox is answered. There's a shout out to a new feature and then an explanation of using Dropbox for work or for personal use, followed by a few stats and testimonials. Here is the homepage for Wave, a bookkeeping software. Again, this page scrolls quite a bit while introducing the product. At one point, we get to the five main tools that are displayed in a tabbing pattern, which still can be scrolled through. That's pretty fun. And then testimonials, who this product is for, and a few frequently asked questions. The last one for the narrative category, the homepage for Arc, an innovative browser. Here too, we scroll through the page while the main features are being explained. Those features that separate this browser from its established competitors. I really like the spirited graphics and the small animations everywhere. This browser seems like it will be a lot of fun to use. Onto a homepage strategy I call Fusion. That's simply a combination of multiple strategies. In fact, most websites will employ more than one of the strategies that I have covered here. Let's look at two examples. The Elbphilharmonie website is for a classical orchestra in Hamburg, Germany. The opening video on the homepage feels like a palette cleanser. It sets the mood for the site. There is also a prominent call to action right on top, buy tickets. Then we have featured content, links to a bunch of upcoming events and to recent videos, podcasts, and articles. And on the Paymo website, aside for time tracking software, we get a big call to action right away, get started. As you scroll down, there is a narrative explaining the service that Paymo provides. And then when you reach the end of the page, just in case, there's another call to action. Okay, just one more strategy. Some sites get away without having a homepage altogether. Here is an example of a site that my studio created. On the Delmonico books site, you see that there are four primary links, books, about, partners, and contacts. When we arrive on the website, we automatically land on the books page. This page lists all the books this publisher has published. When we designed the site, we realized that there was nothing else that needed to precede this page. No palette cleanser, or narrative, or featured content, or call to action. The user gets to the most important content page right away. Instead of saying that this page doesn't have a homepage, we can of course also say that the books page is the homepage. All right, we have made it through our investigation of homepage strategies. This should give you a good foundation and some inspiration for the homepage of your project that you are designing in this course.