In this section, we're going to move one
step closer to our finished prototype. We're going to create or import all of our existing screens
into our prototyping software. It's going to help us if we organize
all of these screens onto one page, and we already have a couple of models for
this. We have our sitemap and
we have our wireframe map. So here are some sample screens
that I built for the lost pet app. There's a series of login screens,
a series of home screens, a series of posting for lost pets,
a series of posting for pets that have been found, and
a series for searching for a lost pet. Since I'm going to be connecting these
screens together in my prototyping software, it's going to be useful for me to use the organizational maps
that I've already developed. So I'm going to use my wireframe
map as an initial guide. If I take those screens away and just
leave the arrows that connected them, I can almost exactly slot the more finished
designs into exactly the same places. So I can use my wireframe
map as a blueprint for how I'm going to create my prototype
within the prototyping software. So here are all of my different artboards,
all laid out in Figma. I can arrange and group these screens
into their thematic sections. I can move them into a space where their
visual arrangement makes sense with their content and function,
according to the logic of my app. So pretty much, this is the same thing
I was doing with the wireframe map. You can figure out whatever layout or
logical system works best for your app. Here I'm going to arrange my app
with the login screens at the top, with the home screens just below. Across the bottom, I've placed
the three different main sections representing the core functionality of
my app, search, posting a found pet, and posting a lost pet. It's a very simple structure that
follows the basic primary user flow and hierarchy levels of my app. The job of my structure here is for it to make visual sense to me as I lay
out the screens because I know I'm going to add many more later
as I build my prototype. And it could easily get way too
complicated if I don't organize things now. So now let's make some simple transitions
between these screens to make them feel like they're interactive. From my branding screen, you can pretty much click anywhere
to go to the next screen. So, I'm going to make it so that clicking anywhere on that branding
screen takes you to the next screen, rather than making one specific area or
element be the interactive component. All I have to do is connect
these two artboards together. I can make a link between them and choose
which artboard I want to connect to. I can also choose what kind of transition
I want to have between these screens, and if I want that transition to
ease in and out, to be smoother, and I can decide how long that
transition should take. For a transition like this, it,
it doesn't really matter so much. So I'm going to pick a pretty simple
dissolve that'll crossfade between these two images. I'm going to do the dissolve quite quickly
because I don't want to make a big deal out of the transition, but
I want it to be visible enough so that the user feels like they're
being transported to another screen. I can use my preview window to test that
transition to see if I like it or not. If I don't think it's right,
I can go back and change it. The create an account screen has
many more components on it, so I can't make the whole
artboard interactive. I need to think about each of
the individual elements and what the user might do with them. For now, I'm going to concentrate
on the big connections. I'm not going to deal with how someone
might fill out the fields when they might want to create an account, but I am going to deal with what happens when
they click on the arrow button to advance. Because I know that's going to take
them to the next artboard where they can confirm their account details. Likewise, the next big interaction,
when I hit the continue button, it's going to take me to the map,
to my homepage. So I'm basically building these
major links between my screens, even though I know I may have to go back
and build additional intermediary screens. I'm trying to get the shape of
my interactive structure here so that I can see what it feels
like before I spend a lot of time working with the details of the
interactions on each individual screen. Like the process of most
design development, we're making the big moves first. I want to include all the screens that
I've designed so far, so I can link the parrot icon to the next screen where
there's information about the lost parrot. And I can test my transition
by using the preview window. In order to include the last screen, I need to create a connection from
the parrot window to the dog window. I can select the dog icon and make
that the only interactive element, and it's going to take me right to
the next page, to the dog page, with more information on it. So I've managed to include all six of my
screen designs and connect them together. I haven't made everything interactive or
live, I've just made a few connections, and I'm
going to do this as a preliminary test. I want to see what my prototype
feels like, how it's going to work. So rather than build a prototype
with all 20 screens, I can just take a sample of a few screens,
and try them out, and see what needs fixing,
see what works and what doesn't work. Now, in my preview window,
I can go from my app identity screen, to my create an account screen,
to my account confirmation screen. I can click continue and
go to my home screen, my map screen. And my cursor tells me that
the parrot is the only live element. So I can click on that to get to
the parrot details screen, and from there I can click on the dog and
get to the dog detail screen. I've also set it up so
that I can click back on the parrot and go between these two screens, because I
want that transition to be quite minimal. I wanted it to be seamless because
it's a small jump for the user. What we've made here is a test
version of our digital prototype, and even though it's very limited,
we can actually test it on a real device. Even at this preliminary stage, seeing
it on a device can be really useful. Even though there's not a lot of
interaction, just the fact that the user is touching the screen and getting
a response makes the app feel real. I can also flip through the other
screens that I've designed, even though I haven't put links
in there yet or connected them. And once I've seen all my screens in
this simulated mode, I can assess and evaluate them, figure out which
things work and which things don't. And how I plan on making them work
better when I build my larger prototype.