Here we are at our last class
of UX design fundamentals. We're at our final
phase where we get to publish and
test our prototype. But first, it's important
to make sure that all the pathways through
the interactive prototype are working properly and
that you have a way to test the prototype with someone else through some
working simulation. Here's my final set
of screens laid out and organized in my
prototyping software. There are nearly 60 screens just for this short prototype. Like we've seen, I can use the preview window to test out all of my links
and pathways, or I can present
the prototype by itself without seeing all
the individual screens. I might even record this
if I wanted to keep a record of what it's like for the user to go through
the prototype. I find this presentation view is a good way for me to
test my prototype one last time before I hand it off to test it with the user
that's never seen it before. I can travel through
all my pathways to make sure that everything works and check that there are no dead ends or places where
the user might get stuck. I've arranged my fixed
pathways through the prototype into an order that I think makes
sense for the user. After my initial splash screen, the user will go
through a few steps to create an account by
entering their name, their email, and
specifying a password. The user then continues through the login screen
before they arrive at the main home screen,
which is the map. My main menu at the top
of the screen is active, and the user can
also click on any of the icons that are on the map because they
are all active as well. Opening and closing the information windows
feels quite realistic. If I spot a found pet on the
map that I know is mine, I can claim that pet. Here's my lost snake
that I'm going to claim. When I claim the snake, it takes me out to a separate
confirmation screen. Then I can use my main menu to easily go back to
the map screen again. I'm basically trying to make
every possible activity of browsing in my home screen available to the user
in terms of testing. When the user has finished
exploring the home screen, they can choose one of
the options in the menu. I may search for bold to force the user down
that pathway first. Now we're going to explore the search for pathway
through the app. I enter information about the animal that
I'm searching for, and now a match
appears on my map. If it's the right animal, I can claim it and if
it's the wrong animal, I can go back to my search
and start over again. I'm trying to build the illusion
of choice for the user. I'm trying to build
the illusion of full interactivity when there's
really only two choices. When I've traveled all the
way through this path, it's going to take me
back to my home page. But the main menu
is now going to suggest a different
option in bold. I'm basically
forcing the user to travel through my three
main sections in order. Here we are in the post
found section of the app. Here, I can upload
a photo and enter information about the animal
that I found and post it. Once the user does that, an icon will appear back on the home page map showing the
animal that's been found. I'm trying to prove
to the user that their interactions with my
app actually have results. Of course, the point of that is to try to make
it feel more real. Once I've traveled
through the post found pathway of my prototype, the menu is going to
change once again and now it will allow me to
get to the last section, the post lost
pathway where I can post information about an
animal that's been lost. The steps here are very similar to the post
found section. I'm trying to create
continuity and familiarity in
both the interface and the experience for the user. I'm also trying to have some slight visual differences so that the user knows
they're in a different place, participating in a
different activity. This can partly be done
with words and labeling, but I'm also using
this color coding. I'm hoping that the
experience I'm creating is smooth and easy and
logical for the user, and also engaging, as well as interacting
with the interface, I want the user to really
engage with the content. One thing that really
helps with that is using real text and
using real images. It can help when
I'm not repeating the same information over and over in different places
throughout the app. If you can get the user to
engage with the content, that means they're really using and experiencing your interface. When you've tested the prototype yourself and
everything seems good, it's time to create your
finished working simulation. You can do this in a
number of different ways. As we've just seen, you could create and record a
video play through. Your prototyping software
might also allow you to publish a link so that anybody can look at
it in a web browser. As we saw earlier, you can create an
interactive version accessible through
a real device. This option is the
one that's going to make your app feel
the most real. You will actually be
holding it in your hand and directly interacting with
it as if it was real. Now, you're ready to test your prototype
with someone else, and it's really
useful to test it with a user who's
never seen it before. That way, all of
their responses to your UI and UX decisions are
going to be totally genuine. Here's my final interactive
digital prototype. I've been through a lot of stages in my process
to get here. If I was working
in the real world, I'd probably have
condensed that process. But for at least the first
time you design an app, it's worth going through all of those stages so you
can experience them. The next time you do this, you'll be able to
condense your own process down and choose which parts of the process
worked best for you. If you're working on
a larger project, you might not be involved
in all of these stages, you might be concentrating on just one part of the process
in a lot more detail. I hope that what you've
seen as we've gone through this process is how
complicated it can be. Just getting to the stage of
making a digital prototype, let alone making a
fully functioning app. We've covered a lot of
information in this course, and some of it, we've
gone over quite quickly. There are plenty of
areas that we could have investigated
much more deeply. But remember, this is just the beginning course
intended to take you through the whole process
so you can figure out what you might want to
investigate in more detail. There are two more courses
that follow this one that'll help you look at some of these issues in
much more detail. I hope this course has been productive for you
and I hope that you managed to get to
this final stage of producing a
digital prototype. Wherever your focus
ends up being in the broad field of UI and UX, I wanted to wish you
good luck in developing your app and getting your
digital prototype finished.