Here again is our roadmap. We've arrived right in
the middle of the UX process, ready to tackle the sitemap phase. This of course,
means that we are getting more and more concrete with the shaping
of our final site. In the sitemap phase, we are very much concerned with
the structure of information. If the last phase, the outline of scope
phase, was all about defining our requirements, now we are figuring
out how the piece of content and functionality fit together as a logical
hole that the user can navigate with ease. At its core, it is all about
defining hierarchy and sequences for the options that
are presented to our users. We're taking all this stuff,
all this content and structuring it so it can be accessed in a logical way. And this step isn't even all that unique
to websites if you think about it. Graphic designers deal with structure and
hierarchy of information all the time. I mean, when designing a poster, designers have to create hierarchy for
the elements that are on the poster. When designing a book, they create a table of contents that
guides the structure of the entire book. The sitemap, in a way, represents
the table of contents for our website. It is an information flow diagram that
includes a bunch of boxes connected with lines and arrows. We'll cover the different components
of a sitemap later in this lesson, and we'll also look at specific
examples of sitemaps. But let me stress one thing right away. As the table of contents for our sites, the sitemap will show us what to include
in the main navigation of the site. To illustrate this, let's quickly add some
example content into this sitemap sketch. Here you see that everything
starts at the home page and there are four first level pages,
products, about, cart and contact. Well, if this is our sitemap,
then we will want to use these four top level items as our links
in the main navigation bar. We'll deal with this much more in
our next phase during wireframing. But I wanted to mention that when
we are thinking about the sitemap, we are already laying the groundwork for
the navigation menu.