User needs and client needs these
are two fundamental aspects to investigate in order to base your
design decisions on a solid foundation. So ask yourself,
what do your users need from the site? And what about the needs and
goals of the client? If we don't know the answers
to these questions, we don't really know what to
build in the first place. User needs and client needs provide the foundation of
every decision in the UX design process. All other decisions we make from here
on out will be determined by these requirements. By the way, let me make sure that everyone understands
what I mean when I say user and client. Users are the people that will access and
well use your site. You can also think about them as visitors
or customers or target audience. And if it's helpful, you can think
of their needs as visitor needs or customer needs or target audience needs. The client is the business owner or
the leader of an organization. It's the person in charge, the one who
hired you to design their website. The client might be your customer, but they are not the customer of
the website you will create. You can also think about the client
needs as business needs or more generally, website needs. Of course, you might not be
working with the boss directly, that really depends on the size
of the business or organization. Your primary day to day contact might be
an assistant or the marketing department, or you might be working as an in
house designer with a team. Then your team leader
might be your clients. A word of advice in this regard. In the beginning of a project, it's essential to clarify who
will make the final decisions. In the end, it will not matter
much if the people you work with directly are happy with your work if
the person in charge thinks otherwise. So make sure that important
milestones are presented to and sign off by the person who has
the authority to make final decisions. By the way, an added difficulty for
students at this point is that student projects often don't have
actual clients for the project. In this course sequence,
I gave you a general project brief, but I'm not your client. You came up with the specific idea for
your project, so you had to play the part
of being the client. That can make certain
aspects a little easier. You don't have to deal with a difficult
client who always disagrees with your decisions, for example, but it also takes away some of the real world
complexities projects inevitably have. But that's okay, if you become a UX
designer, you will have lots of opportunities to gain real world
experience working with actual clients. But now back to our discussion
of user needs and client needs. What's important at this point is that
these needs are stated clearly and in detail so that there is no room for
confusion or ambiguity. Everyone needs to be on the same page. That's why you will
summarize your findings in a written strategy document at
the end of this project phase. Also, stay away from
overly broad statements. Making money as a client
need sounds important, but really it's so vague and
generic as to be basically meaningless. No real insights will flow from it. A more specific rephrasing could be
investigate how to use ads in order to grow revenue or
implement search engine optimization so that more people will find the site and
purchase products. Or communicate the advantages
of the pro plan better so that more users will
become paying members. Also, prevent using tired cliches or
obvious statements. A user need of easy to navigate
should be the goal for pretty much every UX project ever,
so it's not really that helpful. Rich user would want a site that
is hard to navigate anyway. By the same token,
don't identify needs that are too narrow. Your client might tell you that
they love yellow backgrounds, but at this point it's way too early for
such decisions. A more insightful need could be for the
site to create a feeling of urgency and energy. Later on, you might decide that a vibrant
yellow background fulfills this need, but again, that's a decision for
a later phase. In general, at this point in the process, you should simply identify all the needs
without having to come up with solutions. Keep things open and loose. Another example the client might
tell you with utmost urgency, we definitely need a blog. Your job is to probe such statements
a little deeper by asking why. Maybe the client's goal is to have
a place for news on their site, or they are looking for an outlet to
share their professional writing. Or the site's search engine
ranking needs to be improved. All these could be good reasons for
a blog, but again, you can decide that in a later phase. Plus, you might actually discover that the
client simply likes the idea of a blog and that they are not aware of the amount
of work it will take to constantly create new content for it. Now, most of the time, user needs
will align nicely with client needs. For example,
take a site that sells art prints. Users of that site obviously
want to buy art, and the client who owns the site wants
to increase the amount of orders. Same with a website that
offers online classes. Users come to the site to learn, and the client wants to enroll as
many students as possible. And a news website, let's say, is visited
by users looking for interesting and informative stories while the client wants
to have as many page hits as possible, great helping. One will also help the other, but there
are instances when user and client needs don't line up so neatly when they are in
fact in opposition to one another. Here are a few examples. A reader of said news outlet probably
wants to read articles in piece, but the client, the owner of the newspaper,
needs to show ads for their business model to be sustainable. The tension between these needs can get in
the way of a pleasant reading experience. Or isn't it nice when websites offer
the option to check out as a guest? It's more simple for the user. No new password to keep track of, but the client might have a specific reason
for user accounts to be mandatory. Another one users often want the option
to talk to a human being to answer questions or resolve issues quickly. So the user need would be finding
a phone number on the website. It's in the client's interest, however, to limit the amount of time
support staff spends on the phone. They will save money that way. So their opposing need is to design
a website that steers users away from wanting to pick up the phone to having
their questions answered on the site itself. When you are working on a real world
project with an actual client, it's likely that the client will be very
eager to communicate their need to you. But the actual users of the site are often
not part of the design process and might be forgotten along the way. It is your job as the designer
to be an advocate for them and to remind your client that
an effective user experience must be centered around
an understanding of user needs. Of course,
it really helps to talk to actual users. So if you have the time and budget, figure
out a way to perform user interviews, create user surveys or
schedule focus groups. Interacting with actual users
to discuss their needs and preferences will make the process a lot
more tangible, real, and insightful. Let me finish up this
lesson with an example. When we started to design
the Callards project archive, we of course started by
identifying user and client needs. Before I share those needs,
let me be specific about the users and the client for this project. The client was the CalArts School of Art,
specifically the dean and the program directors who I worked with
directly and who made the decisions. I'll talk more about identifying
target audiences in the next lesson. For now, let me tell you that we
determined that the following would be our users, current students,
prospective students, curators and employers, faculty, admissions counselors,
alumni, media and donors. Now, here are the user and
client needs that we identified for the project archive website. I invite to pause the video for a moment
and to read through the list in detail.