We have arrived at phase four in our journey along the user experience process. That means we are ready for wireframes. And that also means that we are focusing our attention on the individual pages of our site. So as a quick reminder, in the previous course, we established our goals in the strategy phase, and then we defined requirements to meet these goals in the outline of scope. And finally, we figured out how all the pieces fit together in a cohesive logical structure. Now, during wireframing, we are asking the question, how are the pieces presented on the screen? So we are finally dealing with the design of the user interface, the UI. In fact, it's the first time in our design process that we are explicitly thinking about the design of the user interface. Everything up to this point has been much more big picture thinking. To strain a few metaphors, up until now, we've been looking at our project from a bird's eye perspective. We've been hovering high in the air, looking at overarching questions of strategy, requirements, and structure. Now we are ready to enter the trenches and work on the interface that the user will actually interact with. But we are not ready to design the final appearance of the interface. Instead, wireframes are low-fidelity mockups. And low-fidelity is a bit of a funny word. It means simplified or low-detail. So wireframes are simplified versions of the user interface. Here you can see an example from the Callards project archive. You can see that wireframes involve a lot of rectangular gray boxes and default typography. It's a bit drab, I agree, but that is by design. Wireframes are not meant to be too visually exciting. We're purposefully limiting the amount of detail so that we don't get sidetracked by having to think about colors or typefaces or precise scale relationships or which particular image to use. We're mainly deciding which elements go where on the page. Where's the logo? Where's the navigation? Where are other page controls like search and filters? How many columns do we need? The term low-fidelity is the opposite of high-fidelity, a word you might be more familiar with in the context of sound quality. When we say high-fidelity or hi-fi, we mean high detail, something that's very similar to the original. In the context of user interface design, a high-fidelity mockup includes all those details that we are omitting during wireframing, such as colors and typeface choices. A high-fidelity mockup is very close to the final website as it will appear in the browser. And we'll work on those in the next phase, the visual mockup phase. You might ask, do we even need this intermediate step of creating wireframes? Why not jump straight away into designing high-fidelity mockups? The reason is that wireframes give us the opportunity to focus on more fundamental questions about the structure of our pages without getting caught up in a lot of details. It's similar to making a pencil sketch before painting an oil painting. Or you can think of wireframes like an architectural blueprint. We don't yet have to hunt for the perfect typeface or the exact shade of orange or the exact type size. Those are all important concerns eventually, but right now these details could derail our design process. Maybe you've been in this situation before. You're trying to quickly sketch out a few ideas on the computer and all of the sudden you realize that you've been spending the last hour looking for just the right typeface. That's where wireframes help you out. The fact that they are so restrictive visually means that you can focus on big picture decisions. And as abstract and simplified as the wireframe on the left is, there are tons of big picture decisions that have been made. We know, for example, that the main navigation will be on top in the middle and the filters are on the left. The button for the secondary menu and the search are on the top right. And the project thumbnails take up most of the screen real estate. Each thumbnail will have the project title, year, and artist name as a caption. On the right, you see how these structural decisions are reflected in the visual mock-up. Here, all the final visual design decisions have been made. I'll leave you with one more metaphor to distinguish wireframes and visual mock-ups. Low-fidelity wireframes are like X-rays of the final page designs. They represent the underlying skeleton of each page, while the high-fidelity visual mock-ups represent a beautiful skin. So let's discuss in detail all the things we have to figure out during wireframing.