[MUSIC] Peer review tips, critique and feedback
are essential parts of the design process. They're an essential way to see if your
design is communicating what you intended to an audience. So in this video I'm going
to outline a few tips for completing peer review assignment
successfully in this class. Participation in peer
review thoughtfully and meaningful will help you practice
these indispensable skills. Submitting assignments, read the
instructions carefully, make sure you take a look at the review criteria so you know
how your assignment will be assessed. Review any examples your
instructor may have provided and upload exactly what you are asked to do. If something in the instructions isn't
clear post your question in the course forums so staff can assist you. Make it your best work. This is your creation and
your creativity and should be an exercise that
demonstrates what you can do. Practice assignments should
be opportunities to fail, but a final assignment should be something
worthy of your professional portfolio. Ask for specific feedback, clarify what you need from your peers
in your review where applicable. Use the designated comment field to ask
for specific feedback on your submission. Submit on time, refer to the due date for submitting your assignment on
the grades page within the course. If you're too early or too late, the peer
review process may not work as intended. Reviewing submissions. Take your time with reviewing. Don't rush this. Look at each part of your
peers submission carefully and compare what has been submitted to
the expectations set out in the rubric. Be objective, when reviewing consider your
role as a viewer or reader of the work. Focus only on what the rubric
asks you to evaluate and try to limit your personal opinions
about the work in your comments. Be clear and informative. Generic feedback such as good or okay. Are unhelpful comments for peer reviews
because they don't give a your peer any specific information about what
was working in their submission. Likewise, it doesn't help to say it
doesn't work or I don't like it because it doesn't give you appear enough information
to help them reassess their designs. Try to articulate a detailed response
that helps to affirm your peers choices in their submission. Or guides you appear towards
the goal of an assignment if it appears that they are off track,
be constructive. Your feedback should motivate
your peer to make adjustments and work towards improvement. If there is a need to correct your peer,
be honest, but it's more helpful to include specific recommendations or
strategies to help the learner improve. Be generous. Recognize that everyone comes to this
course with a different level of experience, as well as a different
approach to making work. Honor and value these differences. Bad grammar and spelling shouldn't
contribute to a bad grade. Please be generous. Likewise, please don't penalize
students for small mistakes. Flag plagiarism and dishonest behavior. These violate course eras honor code. If you're asked to review an assignment
and it appears to be plagiarized, you can flag it. So coursera learner support are notified. Complete your reviews on time,
refer to the due date for completing the minimum number of peer reviews on
the grades page within the course. If you're too early or too late, the peer
review process may not work as intended. Consider reviewing more than the minimum
number of peers for a given assignment. Not only is this helpful for your fellow
peers, but it's also instructive for you to see a greater range of
submissions to inform your own work. And the more you practice critique,
the better you will get it in and ultimately, the better your own work
will be as you integrate your critical abilities into your own design process.