So we'll be talking a lot
about UX in this course. We should start simply
by defining the term. This is something Michael already touched
upon in the first two courses of this specialization, but it's always good
to review such fundamental concepts. So let's get started. Of course, UX stands for user experience,
but what does that actually mean? Here's one way to define it. The experience a product or service
creates for people in the real world. That's a pretty concise definition,
just one sentence, but let's dig a little deeper. What are the words that stand out here? I would say the following three,
experience, people, real world. Let's consider each of these briefly. What happens when we have an experience? It leaves an impression on us,
some sort of feeling, and often a memory. An experience is usually also
accompanied with a qualifying adjective. You could say you had a beautiful
experience or a horrible experience. Or the experience could be boring,
delightful, charming, confusing or frustrating. I think most of you can remember
interacting with a website or an app that could be
described with these words. I, for example, really enjoy
the experience of The Atlantic websites. It being a political and
current news website, of course, the content isn't often
all that beautiful, but I find the reading experience
on this website to be beautiful. I love the crisp typography and the quirky
illustrations and the bold photography. Here's an example of a delightful
experience, in my opinion. The website for TUSHY,
a bidet attachment product. It's admittedly a slightly
awkward product, but the TUSHY folks really lean into it
with humor, puns and irreverence. And one more example, this time
of a website whose experience for me is beautiful but also frustrating. The website for
the LA Phil is gorgeous and makes listening to classical
music an enticing prospect. But look at what happens on the homepage. I just arrived and I'm interested
in this Upcoming Events section. Surely, I just have to scroll down
a little to see what's playing next at the LA Phil. Actually, that's not what happens. When I scroll down, I first have to
make it past all of the featured slides. This is called scroll hijacking, by the
way, before the rest of the page scrolls. As I said, a bit frustrating. But back to our definition of UX. Next there is the word people. So this is about humans, and you need
to be able to emphasize with humans and try to understand the strengths and
shortcomings and idiosyncrasies that come
along with our humanness. For example, it shouldn't surprise any
UX designers that humans are impatient, and they don't read every single word
of text you add to your interfaces. They'll likely just start clicking. You won't ever change that, so you might as well design your
interfaces with this fact in mind. I'll talk more in a bit about
the importance of paying attention to the anatomy, psychology, and behavior
of our users during the design process. And lastly, there's real worlds. This is to emphasize that we are not
talking about theoretical experiences or abstract people. Your work has real world consequences for
real people, and wouldn't you want your work to help and delight them
rather than annoy and frustrate them? If your user experience is positive, your goals are much more
likely to be fulfilled. Your users will be happier, and they
will be more likely to buy something or sign up or engage with your content. They are also more likely to return. Now here is another
thing I want to clarify. There's another term that often
seems like it sticks to UX, like some sort of inseparable partner. I'm talking about UI, which stands,
of course, for user interface. You hear about UI UX as a pair a lot. Most job descriptions ask for
UI UX skills. This specialization even is titled UI UX. It often seems like there isn't even
a difference between the terms, but that's not actually the case. The author, Golden Krishna has
a really great way of talking about the difference between UI and UX. Golden wrote a book called
The Best Interface Is No Interface. It's actually an inspiring book, and
I would recommend you all read it. Here's a page from the book, and on it,
Golden identifies a list of UI concerns, navigation, subnavigation, dropdowns,
buttons, links, windows, rounded corners, shadowing, error message, alerts,
updates, checkboxes, and so on. And then a list of what belongs under UX,
people, happiness, solving problems, understanding needs,
love, efficiency, entertainment, pleasure,
delight, smiles, etc., etc. There's quite a difference
between these lists, right? And of course, it's important to
design effective navigation, menus and beautiful buttons. And the decision whether to
use rounded corners or not or the exact shade of a color can have
significant implications on your design. But it's most important to remember why
we are designing in the first place, to remember that in the end,
our work will affect the lives of people. So you can think about user interface
design as a part of the greater user experience design universe. It's an important part, to be sure,
but just a part nonetheless. I would argue that UI is the visual
manifestation of UX thinking. And here are some other elements
that are part of the UX universe, strategy, structure, content,
information architecture, research, writing, usability testing,
evaluation, accessibility, all of these are important aspects
when creating user experiences. This list also suggests that
the elements of user experience design benefit from different skill sets,
and that's maybe the best argument for decoupling the term UI from UX. In my mind, UI UX makes the most sense for
graphic designers, and to be fair, that's what I'm trained for. But you don't have to come from a visual
or artistic field to find a place in UX. If you mostly work on content creation,
for example, a background in communication or
marketing would be helpful. Strategy benefits from
strong business experience. Writing and academic research skills
are helpful if you focus on structure and information architecture, or if you
specialize in UX research, testing, or accessibility, a background in psychology
or cognitive science would be good. You can see that there are many concerns
that go into designing effective and successful user experiences, and
many of these, along with user interface, will be part of this course.