In the second week of UX Design Fundamentals, we're going to focus on mapping, testing, and envisioning. We're taking our design idea and moving it further along in our process. So let's look at where we are right now. By now, you should have an idea for your app that you've developed and articulated so that you have a name, a user profile for an ideal user, a set of goals that you want the app to achieve, and a tagline, and a description that work with your name to accurately describe your app. So, all of that was our ideation and articulation stage and that just forms one part of our entire process. We're going to have to take those ideas and somehow envision them, start to give them form, start to map and plan them out and when we've got that stage right, we'll be able to start to develop the visual language even further and build a working digital prototype. These three stages in our process roughly translates as being non-visual, semi-visual, and then visual. In our ideas phase, we're really just using words to describe everything that we were thinking about. Our middle-stage will still use words, but it'll also use other devices like maps, sketches, and diagrams. In our visual stage, we'll be developing the user interface and using it to create final designs to put into a working digital prototype. But this week, we're going to be all about this semi-visual stage, the stage of envisioning. So, we'll be trying to expand and represent our ideas using a set of tools other than just words, but we'll also be careful not to dive straight into trying to create a fully finished user interface design with finished elements. We don't want to invest the time in doing that until we've got this second stage of our process really resolved and sorted out. In a lot of ways, this middle stage as a stepping stone between coming up with the idea and making the idea. We're really developing it and mapping everything out right now and that development can be a mapping of the content of our app where we're trying to figure out exactly what is in our app, but it can also be developing our ideas as well. We'll constantly going to be evaluating and trying to improve upon our app and our initial idea, to help us develop our ideas and content, we're going to be carrying out some preliminary prototyping in a very, very simple way just to try and see if things work the way we think they're going to work. We'll also start to look at the beginning of visual development for our user interface. We'll be looking at beginning design directions thinking about the look and feel of our app, rather than the specifics of the user interface. Once we've started to envision our app by developing it in this way, we'll be able to do a second stage of envisioning where we look much more at wireframing at the functionality and logic of our website, thinking about how to refine it a little bit more and making sure that the pieces that we're developing will work together and we'll be doing that in the third week of our class. So this second week, is really the first half of our envisioning process. It's closer to our ideation phase than our prototyping phase. We're still very much developing our ideas and also developing content. It's important to remember that this is all part of a process and at this stage in our process, we still have the ability to try different things out, to test things, to see what works and what doesn't work, to change things if we need to. This is the stage where your ideas get tested and improved upon, so it's important that you be open minded, but then you are also analytical about the work that you're making and critical about it to some extent. Try and be responsive and react to the things that work and the things that don't work, what we're really trying to do here is get you to grow your app and develop it into something really substantial and successful.