[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Michael Worthington. >> And my name is Roman Jaster. Welcome to the UI/UX specialization, developed by the California Institute
of the Arts on the Coursera platform. User interface and user experience
design is a high demand field. The skills and knowledge you will learn
in this specialization are applicable to a wide variety of careers,
from marketing to web design, to human-computer interaction. This specialization offers practical,
skill-based instruction that is centered around a visual
communications perspective, rather than one focused on marketing or
programming. >> This specialization will provide
you with a palette of specific skills. And we'll show you how to combine those
individual chunks of knowledge into the multifaceted practice of UI/UX design. These courses will give you a road map
to walk you through all the stages in the process of developing UI/UX, from ideation to visualization,
to producing a working prototype. The broad base of knowledge offered in
these classes can be applied to interface design for multiple platforms and
for different screen sizes. >> Through this specialization, you'll
experience the UI/UX development process from start to finish through
a series of projects, both large and small, visual and non-visual. >> I'll be leading you through the first
two courses where we'll focus on the fundamental skills and
knowledge of UI and UX design. We'll define what a user interface is and
look at various examples. Discover how content is organized and
structured on screen. And define what role the designer
plays in creating and shaping the user's experience. You'll have the opportunity to
design your own static interface and create a clickable mockup for
an app of your own design. >> In the third and fourth courses, you'll
further hone your UX skill set, be delving into user research and
understanding your target audience, setting goals and defining strategy, establishing scope and structure, and finally,
developing a compelling look and feel. You'll apply these skills to a single,
large-scale project, developing a comprehensive plan for
a responsive website. We'll also take a look at the relationship
between design and programming. And I invited a few guests: practicing
designers who are going to share tips and insights about user experience design. >> When combined,
these four courses offer a skill set that will allow you to
work as an UI/UX designer, whether that's developing your
own personal website or apps or working with a group of people
in a larger commercial context; you can apply these skills in
a range of different ways. >> No matter your personal or professional
goals, we think you'll find this specialization to be an informative and
rewarding learning experience. [MUSIC]