Hi, I'm Michael Worthington. Welcome to visual elements
of user interface design. I've taught at CalArts
for over 20 years, and I taught the very first
interface design, motion design, and
web design classes, in the Graphic Design Program. Back when I first started, the web was just beginning, and we were designing
interfaces for CD-ROMs. It was very different from today. Interface design, has now become a ubiquitous part of
our everyday lives, through the web, apps,
and mobile devices. I've continued to teach screen-based design
over the years. While it has become much
more sophisticated, one consistent aspect
has been a design first, approach to interface design. In other words, using the formal and
communication strategies of graphic design, as the foundation for a way of designing in
the screen-based world. With that in mind, this course focuses on the visual elements
of interface design, and we'll be looking at user
interface design through the lens of graphic design,
and visual form. We'll start up by examining
the broader question, of what an interface actually is, and discussing the relationship
between UI and UX. We'll be separating
the UI from the UX, the interface from
the experience, in order to examine
the interface in more detail. Likewise, will be taking
the user interface apart, in order to examine each of
the individual components. We'll figure out how each
element of the interface works, and how a designer can
create those elements. Through a series of lectures, and connected visual exercises, you'll build a pallet of
UI skills and knowledge. I'll be helping you combine these individual blocks
of knowledge, that together make
up the skill set of an interface designer. Along the way, you'll
learn the vocabulary, and the processes needed to
design a user interface, from start to finish. At the end of this course, you'll be able to demonstrate a working knowledge of
the visual components, and principles of UI design. You'll be able to
understand how to best apply your formal skills, using color, typography,
and imagery, to create a visually
driven user-interface. This course is really about, how to create the visual
material of the interface. When combined with the UX skills you'll learn in the other
courses in this specialization, you'll have a really
powerful foundation, for working in the field
of UI, UX design.