In this section, we're going to look at
research and development of our idea. We've got four main questions about our
idea that we're trying to answer and we've got four areas that we're going
to investigate in order to answer those questions. So let's look at what kind
of research we should do and let's look at how we might develop
our idea a little bit further. Chances are,
that if you have a good idea for an app, several other people have
also had that same good idea. So, one of the first things that you
can do is check out the competition. It might help you to categorize what other
kinds of apps you're going to look at. The most obvious place to start is apps that do exactly the same
thing as the idea that you have. There are millions of apps out there. So the chances are that there is something
doing the same thing as your app, but it might not be very visible. Even if there's not an app
doing exactly the same thing, I'm willing to bet that there are plenty
of apps that do something similar. And these might contain important
information about what to do or what not to do with your app. These first two categories are very
strongly related to your idea but let's see what happens when you move your
circle of search out a little bit further. You could look at what kind of
apps are adjacent to yours. What apps might have the same
broader subject matter but not have the same specific
subject as yours. And then you could also look at apps that
are totally unrelated to your content and your idea. These could be very interesting
structural, technical, or even aesthetic models that you might be
interested in influencing your design. By looking in all these areas, you'll
get obvious predictable research, but also, tangential, unexpected research. Let's take my leftover food app and look at some apps that do
exactly the same thing. Let's say that I find three examples
from each of these categories. I can search in the app store. But I can also go online and see how
many people are using these apps and what their feedback is. It's quite easy for
me to gather visual research as well. I can take screenshots to
have a record of the designs. But I also need to download all of
the apps, and go through them, and actually experience them. So what other apps might do
something similar to mine? I can find a lot of apps to do with
recipes, and cooking, and ingredients. And some of these might
have some smaller section that deals with using
leftover ingredients. But their main focus isn't going
to be exactly the same as my app. But all of this research
is still very useful, and that might be to do with the structure,
it might be to do with the design. I could be looking at these sites and
noting similarities that I might want to repeat myself, or that I might want to
avoid and do something totally different. If I broaden my circle of investigation, the next stage that I'm going to look
at are apps that are content adjacent. In my case, this is going to be apps that
might deal with food or something to do with food, but don't really deal
with recipes or ingredients necessarily. They might deal with buying or
delivering food, or they might have a more
conceptual connection. For instance, Food for
Alll has a social agenda that could see as having a connection
to the agenda of my app. Whereas, Yelp might be
a much more useful model for thinking about how a food
community is built online. Finally, I could look at unrelated apps,
apps not related to my content, but that might inform my idea, or
my structure, in some other way. LifeHacks, for instance,
seems to have a DIY, resource-using philosophy
that matches mine. Or, I could find some design or
conceptual ideas that are useful. Insights that deal with reusing or re-purposing things that seem to be trash,
but really aren't. I like having these broader influences
because it stops your research becoming too predictable. So we've looked at a range
of different connected apps, ones that are very specific and
relate to our idea and our content, and ones that are further
away from our idea and our content. So now let's try and
use some of that research and figure out how we might develop
our idea a little bit further. I'm going to talk about this
process in very broad terms, the process of developing your idea. We're going do it without
really talking about content. So maybe you can think about your idea and
put it into this example. Think about your idea as being amorphous, think about it as being a blob or
an amoeba that can change its shape. Your idea shouldn't be rigid, it can be
manifested in a lot of different forms and a lot of different structures,
it's still your idea. But the shape of your idea can be very,
very different. In other words, how someone sees and
experiences your idea. One way to decide on what shape
your idea should have is to ask yourself a series of what if questions. What if my app was entirely image-based? What if my app connected
to a food delivery service? What if my app allowed people
to donate food to charity? You can always say no to any of
these ideas that you come up with. But what's important is that
you test out your idea and you come up with a bunch
of different options. Ideas are pretty much free. They just take your time and
a pencil and a piece of paper. So it's worth mapping out
all the possibilities, all the different ways that
your idea could be manifested. And it's worth doing that now to find out
what the right direction is because right now your ideas are free, but your idea
can take whatever shape you want it to. As we just saw, there's many different
shapes the same idea could have. By thinking like this, you're exploring
your options, and you're trying to discover what is special about your app,
and what is original about your app. I always find a good way to do
that is to empty your brain, to map out all of the possibilities
that you can think of, even the ones that you
don't think are great. And I do that by listing
everything that my app could do. I like to do that on
a giant piece of paper so that I can see all my thoughts
on the paper and react to them. It also means I can come back to them and decide whether they're really
good ideas or bad ideas and if I can't decide that for myself,
I can very easily test the waters for my ideas by talking to somebody else,
by bouncing my ideas off another person. In a way, even at this beginning stage,
you're getting user feedback. It's the same strategy we've
already seen of being broad and being focused at the same time. The broadness comes from you extending
the parameters of your thought, trying to open your mind to ideas that you might
not initially have thought of and trying to widen your scope of what you thought
was a good solution to the problem. Because once you've laid out all
the possibilities, every single way that your app could be represented and
everything that it could do, then you can examine all of that material,
all of those ideas. And decide precisely which
of those ideas is the best. Which of those you're going to pursue and
then what kind of order or hierarchy you're going to
engage with those ideas