In this section, we're going to
look at some of the goals and outcomes that we want to have for our app. We've asked our four main questions and now we're looking at why
would someone use my app? In the last section, we looked a lot
at our app through the perspective of the user and
tried to define what the user's role was. But now we going to turn it on it's head,
and instead of asking why do I want people to use my app,
we#re going to ask, what are my goals? My goals as the client and
as the designer. So we're changing focus from the people
that are using the app to the people that are making the app. And sometimes those sets of goals align. So let's look at my goals for
making the end. First of all, I'd really like to
reduce food wastage in the world. I feel like that's pretty
important as a social agenda. But I'd also quite like to make
some money out of my app, so I'm not doing it entirely for free. It would great if I could
build a community that was interested in the same issues as I am. We could share knowledge and
information, and all contribute to reducing
food wastage together. And in general I'd like
to provide a useful app. Something that people thought
really had value in their lives. I could take all of my concerns and put them into the same categories
that we've already looked at. My goals as the maker aren't that
different from the users goals. They still fit into political, financial,
social, and functional categories. And all of my goals are interconnected and
interdependent upon each other. If my app ends up being popular, then it could really reduce food
wastage at really high level. And the more successful it is,
and the more people involved, the more my chances are of making money. And I could use that money to funnel
back into reducing food wastage. As my app grows, the better chance I have
of building a new community around it. And with the expansion of that community,
I could provide a much more useful app and I could reduce food waste even further. So my goals are all interconnected to
each other and all interdependent. And I might view them as all being
fairly even, fairly proportionate, in terms of what I'm
interested in acheiving. But that's because I'm
acting as the client here, when a lot of the time I
wouldn't get to choose my client. I'd just be the designer. So what if my client was a large and
greedy bank? What kind of goals might that bank
have in these four categories? Let's mix them up just for fun. Politically, I might want to
promote home ownership. Financially, I would want to make money. Socially, I might to choose
to build a community. And functionally,
the same reason I'd want a useful app. And that doesn't sound too bad. My bank doesn't sound too greedy at all. Wait a minute, though. Most of the bank's focus is going
to be on making money, 80%. It's quite interested in promoting
home ownership still because it makes money from that. It's not that interested
in providing a useful app. And it might have no interest at all in
building your community because there's no financial gain for the bank in that. And this is an extreme and
unrealistic model. Our digital world doesn't work like
that because everything is connected. Each of these aspects has
an effect on the other one. So even if the main focus of
a greedy bank is making money, it might only put 40% of its energy there. If you ignore the social and functional aspects of your app,
you're going to be in trouble. You need to actually spread everything
around a little bit more evenly. Let’s see what happens at
the other end of the spectrum. Instead of a large and greedy bank,
let’s see what would happen if we were making an app for a small and
rather nice charity. In the broadest sense,
some of the goals of the small and nice charity might be the same
as the large and greedy bank. And some be different. So, financially, for instance,
the charity still needs to make money. It still wants to build community and
provide a useful app. The biggest difference might be its
goal politically, in this case, to feed the homeless. And it might be less concerned
with providing a useful app and more concerned with providing
an engaging app for its audience. If we think about where the emphasis of
the charity might be, it might be much more towards its goal, its political
goal of feeding the homeless. It would probably have quite a high
interest in building community but maybe less interest in making money. because it's small and
may not need much money to keep going. And it might chose to not put much
emphasis on creating an engaging app. But just like our previous example,
everything is interrelated here. Our political, financial, social and
functional aspects of the app. Because everyting is interrelated, the app
may actually want to make lots of money so that the money can be used
to feed the homeless. And if the app builds a larger community, it'll probaly make more money which
again will let it feed more people. You could even make an argument
that everything is so interrelated that the percentages of
the focus of the app should all be even. If the app wasn't engaging, it would dramatically adversely
affect the other areas, for instance. So, in some cases, you might end up with
everything being divided pretty equally. But it's going to be different
from app to app, from content and subject to content and subject. So you're going to have to figure out
where the emphasis of your app lies. Because that's going to have
a lot of knock-on effects in terms of how your content is
structured and how you want to shape the user's experience as
they travel through your app. It's important to remember
that all of the goals and outcomes in your app are all tied to
each other and all affect each other.