Cool. So, the last time we get together to talk about your projects. Yeah. Yeah. The final. Final mockup, the entire ordering sequence, we'll take a look at it. Before we do that, let's talk a little bit about the software that you used to create the mockups and the clickable prototype. Practically, you used. Yeah, for me I use Adobe XD, it's actually a relatively recent Adobe edition, and if you have Adobe from the cloud. Yeah. It'll be online. The Creative Cloud. The Creative Cloud. Yeah, and I use that to not only make my visual mockups, but also do a click-through thing, and you can actually plug in your phone to your computer- If you're looking at it here through a special website address. Right. Yeah, it gives you an address so you can send it to other people and they can view it. Which is actually pretty- We can click on things. Exactly. Go back and forth. Yeah, it's really pretty awesome actually. So yeah, even on your phone, you can go and scroll through it, and click through it, but for me I have a couple of pages mocked up on here right now, but it works really well that way. It's super helpful. Yeah. You also designed it in XD? I did. Yeah. So, it is a design and prototyping software. Exactly. Yeah. It comes with their Creative Cloud. Allison, do you use Illustrator? Yeah, I continue to use Illustrator through the whole process, and then I used a website called envision to help mock-up my website. envisionapp.com. I think, yeah. I think it- I think it has a free trial. It was a free trial. Yeah. But basically, you can export all of your artboards from Illustrator and upload them onto envision, and then you can mockup all the actions that you would take to go through all the pages. You can make hotspots that are linked to other artboards, and I get the feeling of if I click here on testimonials, I can click back on the homepage. It almost acts like a website, but it's still just an image. It's not a real website, but you get an idea of. The feel of how the flow would work. You can scroll et cetera. Cool. So, Illustrator and envision, Adobe XD, but it doesn't really matter. In the end, what matters is what you do with those tools, so. Exactly. Let's look at yours. Awesome, yeah. The homepage, we discussed at length. Yeah. Last time, last class. Shall we click through? It's coming up. Yeah. So, I get to click on order now. Yeah. Maybe try faves. Yes. So, I mocked up like one bowl for this since I went more on the customization aspect of it. But you created illustrations- Yeah. I created illustrations, and maybe if we actually go to the custom now, might be a good time. So, to get around like using images because it's hard to find poke images, to be honest. So, it's a more specific food. So, I was thinking a lot about LA art and stuff, and came up with a spray paint-style illustration that I think have worked with the visual language of the website. What would have been another option? I guess, I could have gone find them online somehow with a lot of luck. The problem with that, is like finding ones that are consistent also, having different looking fish images would be weird. Cut out on one page. So, I think it makes a lot of sense in this context to do illustration. Yeah. Also and the copyright problems. Yeah, copyright problems also. That you're running so very quickly. Yeah. I guess one other thing you could have done, and I think these are beautiful illustration and we'll talk about them more. But I guess, just to explore all the options, you could have made some rice and bought some salmon, and some tuna, and done a photo shoot, right. Yeah. Then it would have been able to art direct your images, it would have taken. I mean, this took obviously a lot of work to create the illustrations. Yeah, that's totally something that you could do, but I think for me. You were more interested. More interested in illustration, yeah. If you look at the voice of the site, there's something very graphic and almost cartoony about it, that the illustrations actually worked quite well in the context. I agree. Yeah. Let's just look at these here, the base. Oh, and we can write as you go through it and you mocked it up all at once. Yeah. Once you choose something, get this border around it. Yeah. So, you can see what you chose as you go through. Tofu is pretty nice. Yeah. Yeah, they're nice little tofu. Yeah. Also, it's really believable like the salmon, the tuna looks, looks real. The sauces, different colors. This is fun, seaweed, crabmeat. Cucumbers. Yeah. And? The J. Onions, green onions, carrots, sesame, ginger. Cool, and then I can add this to my cart, and as we've seen in the wireframes, it slides out from the right. So, it's like a layer on top of the wireframes. It's really color and visual aspects of the website, yeah. Yeah. We were looking at what we'll look at in the final website. Take an order, you get to put in your delivery address, credit card info, click on purchase, and that's it. Thank you. You get a map and a button if you wanted to- Go back home. Yeah. Let's look quickly at one page, the order page because there's some iterations that you went through. Right. Yeah. It's like we looked at last time, we looked at the homepage and the different iterations of that went through, and I think it's interesting to look at this page also, so you can see another process of just how through each step you go through and refine. Like starting off from the first one on the far left, there's a lighter color, like a light gray. For the button types. For the buttons and I didn't really know what to do with the logo, it just seems really loose. On the next line, like it's a little closer, but still a little- like the buttons look too heavy, and I went through on the third one with small bottom texts but- Yeah. That was a bit too big shifts between the second, the third, you lose the black outline. So, it becomes a little lighter, a little more sophisticated, and you replace the black outline with the slightest of gradients. Yeah. You add a little bit of a byline. So, under faves if you're explaining faves. Yeah, pretty much. Our all-time favorites. Yeah. Custom create your own. But I think ultimately, on the final one, we don't really need that necessarily, I think. If it's a little more obscure because I was like, "Well, just a little bit." Like you need to know, like you need to maybe, well, it assumes that you know what faves is so that becomes a little bit of an insight thing. Yeah. Which should again, going back to the voice of your size, a little bit, cooler. You have to be in the know. You know it's not that difficult to figure it out, you can tap on it, and then you see that those are the pre samples. You'll see. [inaudible] Yeah. Also, well, one last shift between the third and the fourth, is that you've made the typeface all uppercase, which seems like a good move because it just creates a solid box inside of the circle. Yeah. Then lastly, let's look at, you have a mockup of the desktop. Desktop mockup, yeah. Yeah, so just expanding the same graphic language into what it would look like on a big screen. Nothing too surprising here, right. Things just get bigger. Yeah. Wider. Yeah, here you have, instead of everything being in one column. Split up. Yeah, you have three columns and two columns, which makes sense. You have a bigger screen, why not show more options at a time? Yeah. You get to choose your options a little bit more quick. You'll see everything at once, which is just awesome. It's the advantage of having a big screen, I suppose. Cool, fair enough? Sweet, thanks. Thank you.