Allison, your mock-ups, your sequence. Final walk through. Here is the homepage. We talked about that at length, last class. Just as a review, you have some images. Yeah. My mission statement. Mission statement. The process of ordering or what will happen and yeah. A call to action. Call to action. Oh yeah, and the live chat. Always there. Shall. How can I help you today? So, that's always hanging out on every screen. So, we can always talk to our friend. We can always say hi to him. So call-to-action begin your order with us. Let's go through this. Now, we already saw this in the wire-frame but now. Yeah here we are. Fully dressed up. So, we put in our address, yes. We can deliver to you. Continued to create your order. Click on next. In a way, once you designed this screen and you have your wire-frames. The rest of the screens almost design themselves. Yeah. Do you know what a button looks like, you know what a text field looks like, you know what your headline looks like, you know what your secondary explanation text looks like. Those decisions once they're made, they really inform. So, here's our slider to indicate how many people. Then the customization menu. So, at first, one might be checked, Caesar salad, but if we add two more. So, on the right, the interface looks [inaudible] if you're only ordering Caesar salad, then you're getting 100 percent Ceaser's salad. If you add the other two, Greek and caprice, then it gets a little bit more complex. You get this pie chart. That's, in a way, a little hard to mock up graphically but, we imagine that if you drag this line towards the right, then you're able to change the allocations between the different items. So now, we would get 50 percent Caesar and then 20 percent, 30 percent of the rest. Then you can either click next or you can click on the, I guess this is by now a tertiary menu. Since we don't see our primary menu. You can click to the rest to the pastas, the wine. Again, indicating if there are more red wine drinkers, then you just indicate that here with our pie chart UI. Schedule. Schedule page. Date and time. The review order page, so, similar to before, just stylize it now to match for this mock-up. Just all of the details and if you need to go back and change your order, you click on that button. Yeah. These buttons, or even these if I wanted to change the time, I can click here and do that. Highlighting the total cost. Yeah. Yeah. Then split of either you already have an account, you can log in, or you can create an account. But you can't, like in Bradley's case, you could create an order without creating an account at all. Or you didn't even have that option period. Yeah. But here, it's the opposite. You have to make an account. That make sense. If you make an order for 100 grand, I'm sorry, 1,000, one grand. Then you might as well create an account right, so there's some accountability. Security. Yeah. So, either one, login, create account gets us to the final page, checkout, where you can put in your credit card information, your billing address, and then submit the order. So, this is the quarter thank you page. You mocked up two more pages, we can look at them, the testimonials. Testimonial page has some more little illustrations from earlier, and photos of events. Also. Also the FAQ has illustrations in. Here you can really see how having these assets, having your pasta illustrations, really helps you create pages that are fun and not so drab or predictable or uninteresting. These illustrations can float around and add some visual excitement. Quickly, let's look at the the development of the thank you page. Yeah, I think it follows that we saw earlier in the wire-frames. I went from a more direct and I don't want say harsh, but plain. Yeah. Thank you page. That's says grazi. Yeah. I notice you have a little bit of Italian. Yeah, but still, the message is very bland, and I had a huge return to home button which was not necessary. So, in the next one, I revised the copy and also changed the scale so that it commands more attention on the page, but still the typeface as not matching rest of my brand. Which you actually switch the typeface between this version and that first. For a long time, you were actually working with a different typeface. Do you remember the name? It was Josephine. Josephine. But I think that was also a good move, there was something a little awkward, a little stiff about it. Do you remember the typeface? I think its called Redress. Yeah. Redressed. Just has a little bit more curviness to it, which is nice, and obviously you also got the illustrations in there, in the final. So, you, Bradley, focused on mobile, you focused on the desktop experience, but both of you addressed the opposite a little bit so, Allison knew, this is. This is my mobile mock-up version. So, there's a hamburger menu in the top left corner, but most of the things on the main page are pretty similar to what was on the desktop version. It translated pretty well. Things got a little bit smaller. There's less space to the left and the right. But, you had to deal with your menu, and this is not any old hamburger menu, you made a fun one. Yeah. Usually it's three just straight bars and you made it a little bit of a pasta. Yeah. So, when you tap on that, the menu opens. Our six options here, they just overlay on a dark background. You click the X, you go back, or you can choose whatever, if you choose catering, you end up here. Yeah, you begin a similar ordering process to what's on the desktop. I guess what changed here is the breadcrumb trail, where you see the seven steps laid out in front of you. They are not there because there's just not enough space. If we added them, it would take up so much space and it would clutter up the page. Yeah. So, you just have to go back and forth between steps if you want to change anything. Cool. All right. There we go. Pici pasta. Nice job, guys. Thank you. Thank you. Great projects, both of them. Awesome. So, I hope the Coursera students get some insight from your explorations and thanks for talking us through.