So, by now we know what a sitemap is and why it's an important part of the user experience process. I've also talked about how we get from a loose collection of content and functionality requirements to a structured sitemap diagram. In this lesson, I want to introduce a tool that lets you test your sitemaps information architecture and solicit feedback from actual users. The tool is called Treejack. It's developed by the company Optimal Workshop Out of New Zealand. They actually make a few other helpful tools for UX designers such as first click testing tool and tools for card sorting, surveys, and questionnaires. Treejack is a tree testing tool or put another way, an information architecture validation software. It basically allows you to test if your users will be able to find certain content on your site easily. In a moment, you'll have the opportunity to test drive Treejack yourself and you'll also get to test your sitemap that you're creating for the course project but let me first talk about a project where we used Treejack. In 2017, my studio, Yay Brigade, launched the website for a new art museum in Los Angeles called the Marciano Art Foundation. If you're ever in Los Angeles or if you live close, you should definitely check out this place. It has a cutting edge contemporary art collection and it's located in a renovated Masonic temple. The mysterious architecture alone is worth a visit. Anyway, here's the homepage of the website that we created. It's online at marcianoartfoundation.org. And of course, we created a sitemap as part of our design process. You can see that the primary navigation contains sections for about visit, exhibitions, events, et cetera, and there are sub-pages for each of these primary links and some other links will be listed in the footer of every page. Now, at this point, we thought it would be a good idea to not just rely on our intuition and expertise. We wanted to put the structure in front of living breathing human beings to test if what we created would actually work for our users. That's where Treejack came in. You can find the tool at optimalworkshop.com/treejack. Treejack allows you to input all the information of your sitemap and then create a survey with specific user prompts, and then you can invite people to complete the survey. We sent it out to our network, friends and colleagues, and also to a few of my students at CalArts. Here's the email we sent. Note that we were upfront about the time it would take to complete the survey. We were asking people for a favor so we wanted to let them know it would only take five minutes of their time. Now that you have a little bit of background, I'd like you to take the same Treejack survey that we sent out back when we were still developing the Marciano website. This will give you a pretty good idea how Treejack works. Then, in the next video, I will share some of the results we received.