So now that you had a chance to
take that Treejack study yourself, let me show what we actually
presented to the client after we had people take the tests,
our findings, so to say. we presented that in
an in-person meeting, and we had a little deck of results
that we shared with our client. We showed the tasks that
we asked people to fulfill. And notice here that that's
kind of the smart thing that Treejack allows you do to. It's one thing to look at a site map and
say, is it good? Is it working? And another to approach a site
map with motivations in mind. I hope that when you did the survey,
you realized, once you have a clear motivation, you can actually test
a site structure much more easily. When is the museum open? Well, let me see, what would I click on? There is a Visit section. That's probably it, etc. So we listed our tasks. We showed the navigation that people clicked on just so our client got
an idea of how this Treejack tool works. We include this Age Demographic question. It's not completely necessary but
it's nice to know what the ages were. You can see that there weren't even that
many people, it's 35 people, I believe. But that gives you a pretty good
idea of seeing where problems lie. Overall results were 80% successful. So, out of all these people taking the
survey, 80% answered questions correctly. The directness is how direct were
the people when they clicked on things. So if they first clicked on something
that led them down the wrong path and then they backtrack to find a successful
answer that would be a direct success. So the directness was 76%,
and the success was 80%. Pretty decent, I think. But still, there's 20% of people that somehow got
stuck with one of these questions. So which tasks were the problematic ones? Here's an overview. You can see that the second,
the third, and the fifth question were less successful,
there is a lot of red. Right, all the green means people were
able to find the right results and the red means they chose a wrong answer. So let's go through these three
problematic questions one at a time. The first one dealt with the teacher
trying to schedule a trip to the museum with a class. You can see here that 49% got
this question completely wrong. So that isn't very good if half your
audience can't find the information, so where did they click instead? So here is a view of alternate paths and you can see that the Visit section
was one section where a lot of people headed first and
some of them got stuck there, all right. And, if you see that in the Education
section, Request a visit for your class, that is the right answer,
according to our site map, anyway. So what did we learn here? Well, we should put a link in
the Visit section that refers to the Education section. One possible solution would be to
move the week best to visit for your class form entirely
to the Visit section. We didn't want to do that because
it's an education-related item. But having a cross link from the Visit
section to the Education section would solve our problem. The next question that a lot of people got
wrong was, how do you reserve tickets? Here 77% got it right but still that's a quarter of all
people that did not get it right. So where did they get hung up? A lot of people went to events and
here we realize that the problem might not be with our site map but with the way
we asked this particular question. So how do you reserve tickets, we asked. That could lead some people to think,
tickets to events. Well, those reserve under
the Events section. We meant how do you reserve tickets for a regular visit,
those would be found in the Visit section. So we actually didn't do anything here and
just learned that how you phrase questions will obviously
affect the way people answer them. So you have to be less ambiguous and
very precise. The last question that a lot
of people had problem with is the question about finding
the Permanent Art Collection. The right answer was the About section,
and then the item, The Collection. A lot of people got that wrong,
51% never made it to the right answer. Where did they go instead? They went to Exhibitions, and
if you think about it, it's the Permanent Art Collection that might
be on exhibit somewhere in the museum. I go to Exhibition and expect to find
the Permanent Art Collection there. Since we are more talking about, this
is The Collection that the museum has, not necessarily on view. But these are all the things
that they're collecting, this is the history of the collection,
etc., etc., it made sense for us to put it into the About section and
we left it there. But again, we have a cross link, when someone now goes to the site under
Exhibitions, they see a small reference to the Permanent Art Collection which
lives inside of the About section. So I hope that this gives you a little bit
of insight how Treejack data can be used to interrogate your site map and
to test it, with actual user data. And I invite you to try out the tool
yourself on the site map for your project.