When looking for tools to create wireframes, you have options. Really you could use any tool that allows for drawing boxes, lines, and adding text. So even programs like InDesign and Illustrator would be okay. But I do have a few specific recommendations. Of course you can use pen and paper as seen in this charming example by a former student of mine. But I don't recommend creating final wireframes by hand, mainly because they are cumbersome to update and iterate, you'd have to start over every time you want to make a change. But it can be productive to start off by sketching on paper, or even on a whiteboard with a group of people. Balsamiq is a dedicated wireframing program that has been around for over a decade. At one point it was a favorite among UX designers. It has a desktop version that you can install, but also a version that runs inside a browser. Balsamiq's advantage is a large set of pre-existing UI elements. It also allows for creating clickable prototypes, which comes in handy for client presentations and for user testing. Some people also really like the hand-drawn quality of the wireframes. The disadvantages of Balsamiq are that you have to pay after a 30-day trial, and that the software feels a little bit outdated and clunky for today's standards. Of course you can use Figma. It's a really great tool for anything UI related. You can create clickable prototypes, and it's a really powerful, well-designed software. It's such an industry standard that you might already have some experience with it. But while there are many UI libraries that you can download for creating wireframes, Figma was not made specifically for wireframing. And I think that this is the biggest drawback. Not having any restrictions, you can easily get sidetracked with too many possible formatting options. My favorite application for wireframing is Whimsical. These days I use it almost exclusively for my wireframing work. The main advantage is that it was created explicitly for wireframes, so it offers a very restricted set of choices. There is only one typeface, only a few type size options, and a small set of available colors. You will definitely not be sidetracked trying to design something visually unique. The software, which runs in the browser, also feels modern and intuitive and fun. You can pretty much learn to use it in about 20 minutes. I also enjoy the simple, crisp visual style of the wireframes. And Whimsical has a generous free starter plan. The biggest disadvantage is that Whimsical doesn't support clickable prototypes, at least not at the time of this recording. In my own work, I haven't found this to be a big drawback, though.