In this next section, we're going to be
developing our user interface design. We're going to do that through a process
of decision making and refinement, of trying out designs and seeing which
ones work the best with our interface. So let's look at where
we are in our process. We made some mood boards to
map out our visual direction. And now we're going to take elements and
themes from that direction and apply it to our wireframes
to make a user interface. We looked at two different
visual directions for our app. Both of them provide a palette of graphic
elements that we can apply to our wireframe. I want my app to appeal to
a slightly younger audience and to be more of a lighthearted experience. So I'm going to choose the visual
direction on the right. I'm going to take this graphic palette and
apply it in a fast and fairly rough way to some sample screens. I'm going to make different design
options because I want to test out and also develop my design direction and
be able to try it out on the interface. So let's apply our design palette
to some of our wireframe screens. Let's start out with our simple
branding page to match my audience and the goals of my app. I probably want something that's
a little bit positive and upbeat right at the start. So I'm going to use my name getpet and the
typography that I was looking at earlier. It's fun and bouncy, and
almost feels like a wagging tail. I might want an image to go with it that
reinforces some of those same attributes. But perhaps that looks too youthful now. Perhaps I've gone away
from my target audience. I want to keep an illustration,
but perhaps a different style, and maybe just a pet and not a person. I like this dog because he looks happy,
like he's just been found. Let's add some upbeat colors
to our screen to try and make it look less like a wireframe. As you're building these screens and
applying your design to them, try different things out. They might not always work, but it's
important to test out all of your options. If I change my image to a sad dog,
it immediately has a very different mood. And all I've changed here is just
the expression on the dog's face. All the other elements
have stayed the same. And the happy dog is much more
appropriate for the mood of my app. But I might choose to not
use an illustration at all. I might want to reinforce my branding even
more with some kind of logo type or bug. And I could think about the scale
relationship of my different elements to each other and also to the screen size. I can take my very
upbeat color palette and apply it to some of the other elements,
like the map, for instance. I can use my colors as a background
field for pop-up windows. I might want to change
the shape of that window. And I definitely want to
spend some time rearranging the elements within that space. I can try out some different typography
and also some different button designs. And if you take things too far or
you just don't like them, you can always make another version. Here, I might decide I need more
contrast between my background and my floating window. I can also put in real
textual information and real images to try and
make my interface look more real. Now that I have designs for two screens, I should be able to extend that logic to a
third screen and have them work as a set. I can use the same coloring system for
my map, and I can also take the bug from
the first screen and reuse that. I can use similar typography for
my second screen as well. So even with just three screens,
I'm already extending and applying my design rather than
making three very different screens. I can extend the design
due to functionality. Here, I might need red and green labels
to show lost and found, for instance. I might want to highlight the area
that the user is searching in and make that more visible. So I'm negotiating
between functionality and aesthetics while trying to keep my
design on track for my audience. In my wireframe sketches, I was testing out different ways to show
what kind of animal was lost and found. So I'm going to try and do that here by
using icons for the different animals. I might want some visual heirarchy to
focus on the key animal that's either lost or found. So I might treat that
element slightly differently. So in quite a short time,
I've managed to take my wireframes and effectively dressed them up
with my design aesthetic. But design does much more than
just act as a skin or a surface. It can really change and alter the
function and the structure of your app.