For a visual designer, it is very important to have control over typography, like understanding the rules, creating typographic hierarchy, and pairing typefaces. Typography is a vast field and if you study graphic design, you will spend a ton of time learning the intricacies of type. Since this is a UX class, typography isn't our main focus, but here are a few tips for good web typography that should help you with your projects. Let's start with typeface choice. Type on a website is there to be read, so the vast majority of the time you will want to choose a typeface that is very readable. I already mentioned a few free typefaces from Google Fonts that are a good starting point. Take this example from the Substance website. Beside the logo, we chose two typefaces, a sans-serif inter for the navigation, headlines, and captions, and a serif newsreader for all the body text. Each typeface is really well drawn and is very easy to read, and it's nice to have two different ones for creating a lively, interesting page layout. By the way, you might notice that it seems like there are even more typefaces at work here. That is due to the different font sizes and font weights, and even the use of all caps in the breadcrumb. What you are looking at here is a visual mock-up of this page, and we launched the site looking very similar to this. But what if we were still designing options, and we wanted to add a little bit more flavor to the design? Well, how about adding a new typeface for the title? Lolita 1 is a tiny bit less readable because it is a little bit more ornate, but it sure adds more personality. Albeit not the personality that is appropriate for this particular website, which publishes academic writing. Let's push it even further though, just to make a point. Here is Pirata 1. Notice how this typeface is actually really hard to read. It's a blackletter font, harking back to the script that was popular in Gutenberg's time more than 500 years ago. For a particular site, maybe a club or a concert venue or a restaurant, the feeling of this typeface could work, but it would still be hard to read for some users. Often one gains uniqueness and visual excitement at the cost of legibility. Here's one more example, Oleo's script. This typeface might be appropriate for a wedding photographer or a clothing brand, and the readability when using it just for headlines might be okay. But look at what happens if we use this ornate typeface everywhere. I think it's not an overstatement that nobody wants to read text on this webpage anymore. Reading the main text would feel so tiresome, and the all-caps breadcrumbs are basically illegible. So again, back to my earlier point, start with something legible, especially if you're just starting out designing websites. On to type size. How big should the type be on websites? There are a few rules of thumb. Design your body text, that is the main text that runs in paragraphs, to be at least 16 pixels. You will notice that size is actually quite big on the smallest mobile screens, but any smaller than 16 pixels will make your type hard to read. For bigger screens, you should go up to 20 or even 24 pixels. One thing to remember is that the bigger the screen, the further a user's eyes will be away from it. Your mobile phone in your hand is probably quite close to your face, but if you sit in front of a giant desktop screen, you will usually sit much further away. So making the text bigger for bigger screens is appropriate. Plus there's a lot more space anyway. In general, don't be afraid to make some type really big. Here's a nice example from the design studio Likely Story. This is their homepage and look at how giant these letters are. It's quite surprising and beautiful and unexpected. Big type can create drama and surprise and you can make the typefaces really shine. You actually see the intricacies of each letter. Let's move on to line length and line height. There's a general rule, and this pertains to traditional print typography too, that for an ideal reading experience there should be about 40 to 70 characters per line. That rule influences how you design your column structure. For bigger screens, you'll want to have a maximum width on your body text column. Otherwise there would be too many characters per line. Here's a quick illustration of what happens when the line length is really small or really long. Here at 15 characters per line, you can't even get a complete thought in. That gets really cumbersome to read. On the opposite extreme, at 120 characters per line, a reader has to move their entire head, which is also tiresome. They might even have a hard time finding the next line because the lines are so long. 60 characters per line, in contrast, looks and feels much better. Here is a side-by-side example of that substance page again. On the left, as we designed it, and on the right, a version where the text takes up as much space as possible. Which page would you rather read? I'd argue the version on the left feels much friendlier and more inviting. On to line height. In traditional typography, this is also called leading, and it's the space between the lines of type. On the web, the line height is generally more open than in print design, meaning that there is more space between the lines of type on websites. A good starting point for your designs is 150%. Here's a comparison again using the substance design. On the left, the text has a line height of 120%, which is often the default for a magazine or a book. On the right, the line height is larger at 150%, and that looks much more airy and the text is a bit easier to read. The version on the right is what we chose for the final site. As I've said before, space on the web is not expensive. A user can scroll through a web page as much as necessary, so you might as well make the reading experience as pleasant as possible. With printed books and magazines, space is at a premium because paper costs money. Here's another example, a page from the Washington Post website. The text here even has a line height of 160%. Compare that to a typical magazine, which uses much less line height. Lastly, a word about justification. In general, justified text needs hyphenation to look good. Since web browsers are not that good at hyphenating, here's my advice. Don't justify text. What justifying text does is putting a straitjacket on the text by aligning the lines of text to the left and the right. Something has to give, which is the spacing between the words. And you'll often end up with big gaps between words. Here's an example of two pieces of justified text. On the left, hyphenation is turned off, and on the right, hyphenation is on. On the left, you can see that the word spacing is quite uneven and the text looks ugly. But again, what I suggest for web pages is having your text simply left aligned.