>> Next, you will be completing a peer
reviewed assignment in which youll bring together the interface elements
from previous work in this course to design two screens for your interface,
each highlighting a different event or function from your design. Design critique is an important
skill as a user interface designer. Whether you are critiquing your own
work or the work of another designer, this peer reviewed assignment
provides a way for you to practice design critique by
both giving and receiving feedback. We'll look at a few example submissions
from students who previously completed this course. I'll walk us through a brief design
critique and point out some effective design choices along with some things
to avoid as you lay out your screens, it's important to consider how the user
will interact with your design. For a smartphone user interface,
this means looking at the design and considering how easily the user will
be able to interact with it using their finger. So it's important to evaluate the size and
placement of buttons, menus, and other interactive elements. In this example, the buttons at the bottom
of the screen appear to be easily reachable with the user's finger while
they hold the device in their hand. Looking at another example, while the placement of the buttons at the
bottom of this screen is a good choice, the size of the three circular buttons and
their proximity to one another make these three buttons difficult targets
to easily interact with using a finger. The buttons are placed too closely
together, increasing the chances that the user will inadvertently tap
the wrong button with their finger. Effective screen layout also follows
a perceivable structure or grid, which makes it easier for
the user to perceive, scan, and understand the various design elements and
content on the screen. In this example, you can clearly see the
grid used to lay out the user interface. The screen is clean and well-organized. Here's another example where the
designer's use of a grid is incomplete. While there is a structure to the screen, the alignment of many
of the elements is off. If I add a few vertical lines,
it's easier to see where a grid has not been leveraged,
making the layout appear disorganized. Another thing to look for
during this assignment is how well the two screen designs you
build work together as a set. In this example, there's a clear
connection between the two. The screen on the left shows a main
landing page that provides an overview of heart rate, sleep, and calories. The screen on the right provides
more details on the heart rate. Clear labeling, use of a common grid,
and the navigation at the bottom further reinforce the relationship these
two screens have to one another. In comparison, these two screen designs
are not so clearly related to each other. The screen on the left provides a landing
page with the ability to view live details, access records,
call a doctor, and medicine. However, the navigation relationship
between the screens is not visually clear. Clicking on the view live button on
the left hand screen takes the user to the screen on the right, but there's a missing label to tell the user
that they are now on the view live screen. The home button at the top of
the right hand screen introduces an additional navigational element that
is not shared across the screens, and these two screens also use inconsistent
design elements such as the button size. This all really undermines
the cohesiveness of these two screen designs as a connected pair. As you complete the following exercise and
review the work of your peers, keep these examples in mind. It's often easy to spot inconsistencies
between the stated intent of the design and the actual screen layouts in both
your own work and the work of others. Be sure to pay attention to how you apply
what you've learned about grids, icons, visual hierarchy,
button design patterns, and other design principles that can
lead to an effective design.