When we last saw our app, it was at the stage of the sitemap. We'd thought through our idea and mapped it out quite accurately, but we'd use words as a way to create the interface, and while we might keep a similar structure for our wireframes how we represent the interface is going to change. We're going to start to visually indicate the interface. We're going to try and show the structure or skeleton of our interface, and you can do that in many different ways. Again if you search online for wireframes, you'll get a wide range of visual solutions. And you can visually indicate the interface in many different ways, you could sketch it by hand or on the computer, use a limited palette, so use geometric shapes and lines to represent your interface. Think about how to use scale as Hierarchy, and don't get lost in details of any individual interface elements. Using black and white or gray reducing your color palette, can help keep that simplicity. Think about where your elements are going to live on the screen, and reuse your elements from screen to screen as well. It can help to use some existing norms of interface design. So you can use simple generic interface elements that the user is already familiar with. Even though our changes aren't going to be so big, remember that we're still developing and refining our app, and you might discover things while you make this wireframe that work really well or things that don't work really well, and you can still change them at this stage. It's all part of the process of growing and developing your app and your interface. Let's start out by making our easiest screen, the splash or identity screen. I haven't developed by branding yet. So I'm going to make a generic logo type for my company. My final logo type won't look like this, but we can look at this as a generic form, and we all know that it's a stand-in logo type. Next, we have our login screen. If we were being logged in automatically, we'd go straight to a map. The app would read your location and display the map straight away, and this is the first time we've given any kind of visual form to our main screen. We can use a generic map but we might also think about what that map is going to show. Perhaps some indication of lost and found animals. If the user has to log in manually, they get taken to another screen where they'd have to type in their name and a password to create an account. And in my notes here I've identified this as an area to test with users because I'm unsure about it. But even on this simple login screen, I'm starting to create a visual logic. So alive text field is represented by a white rectangle with a thin black outline, whereas a button is represented by a solid gray rectangle with no outline. And once I establish this visual logic, I'm going to have to stick to that same logic throughout my entire wireframe. If I'm asking the user to type in their name and a password in a live text field, I'm going to need a keypad. To match current conventions, my keypad is going to pop up from the bottom, and it's going to look like a standard generic keypad. I don't even need to give it too much detail there just has to be enough visual information that you recognize it as a keypad. I also want the user to have the option to log in with Google or Facebook, so that should come before they hit the create account button. It would also make sense if those two options were separate with a button for each. Even though I'm using generic forms, I'm starting to make UI and UX decisions as I build my wireframe. My next screen is the create account screen. This can use my same visual logic from earlier with certain kinds of boxes indicating certain kinds of interactivity. I could also add a checkbox here to automatically allow my app to access the user's location. This functionality is integral to how my app is going to operate. So I would really encourage the user to have this box checked. So it would come up as automatically being checked straightaway for instance, and may have a warning dialog box if you uncheck it. It's important that you recognize anything that is crucial to the functionality of your app, and figure out a way to keep it at the top of your UX hierarchy. That doesn't mean it has to be the largest element, but it should be one that everyone encounters and you encourage everyone to interact with. Let's pretend that we're all logged in now, and let's start to look at our home screen. I decided that my app, was going to use GPS information, and display a map of wherever the user was. So when you open my app, you're going to automatically have a map showing your location, and that map can preempt what the user might want to look for. So, we can automatically show them in this case pets that are lost, and pets that have been found in the area of this particular map. If I put myself in the position of the user, this kind of information would be much more useful if I could see what kind of animal was actually lost or found. And if I had lost an animal one of the first things that I want to do would be to get more information, to see if the animal that's found on this screen was actually my animal. So, I could tap on that icon and get more details about that particular animal. Now I figured out what the user wants to do. I have to think about how the user does that in my interface a little bit more. Perhaps there's not enough room in this smaller window for me to see an image of my animal or to read all the details. I could have a larger window that comes in from the side, but this takes up a lot of real estate, and it blocks a lot of information in my map, so it makes it hard to go between the map and the information. A better solution might be to put those details at the bottom of the screen, and that would still allow me an area of the map that was very visible and functional. Once again, I'm developing and refining my app as I'm making. My app is still going to develop even at this wireframe stage. And because of that sometimes it's useful to work in a more reductive kind of way which could even be a simple computer sketch, or a sketch by hand. I like my wireframes to be both generic and to have some connection to what I think the finished form is going to be. But that might depend on the speed of your computer skills. Let's go back to our main menu and look at some other things that might happen on that screen. If I'm not going to engage with what the app automatically feeds me, I'm going to want to make my own decision and choose what the app does next. I need to have my three main options housed somewhere, and it makes sense for those to be the main menu and hidden away until I need them. Let's pick one of these three options, and see how that works in a wireframe. Let's pretend that we want to search for a lost pet. If we choose that option, we're going to have to enter several different pieces of information, we need to be consistent with the visual language that we've already used, and we also need to think about exactly what we're asking the user to enter. So, name, description, species or breed and location, all seem pretty solid. We could also have a checkbox to use the current location which will be useful if you are actively searching in the real world. I'll need a keyboard at the bottom of the screen to enter my information, and that's going to cover up some of the fields. So I'm going to have to figure out a system where they can move up the screen. Once I've submitted the information for my search, the results would come up on the main menu map. As before, it will be much more useful if I could see the names of the animals. Just like before, I could get details about each animal by tapping on them. And here, I'd want to think about all the conventions that I've already used: where my window is going to appear, or what kind of information it's going to contain, because I've been in a very similar situation before, when I worked on the home screen initially. My previous solution was to put all of the information in the pop-up window at the bottom of the screen, to allow a larger space for the map still to be visible. But since I'm carrying out a slightly different activity here, I might want my interface to look and feel a little bit different. It could be very similar, but also slightly different. These kind of decisions could be driven by looking at how the user might want to behave in the slightly different scenarios. The window on the right might be great if you don't want to look at the map but you want to flip through several animals quite quickly. I think this is a good example that illustrates how the design is growing, and changing, and expanding as we're building our wireframe,