So let me give you a tour of the visual mock-ups for the project that you've been following along for the entire course sequence, the Art School Project Archive that I created a few years back. I designed it with Candice Navi, who was a student at CalArts at the time, so we collaborated on this project. These are the very early investigations of finding a graphical language, and you can see there's a lot of different things here that are being tried out. How does the header and the logo work? How does the navigation work? What is the grid for the images? How do the filters look? And there are different background colors here also being tried out. There's even a background texture. Maybe that could work. A lot of different things being tried out here at this very first round, including figuring out what the typography would do, what typeface to use, etc. Then the next round, we settled on this darker background color, and one thing that became a strong driver of the visual language happened here as well. These slight gradients in the background for each of these grid items, that became something that carried through to the final design. You can see we're trying the captions here for each project on a white background. The search is still in the navigation as a separate item that will change eventually, but the filters here, the way they're designed, that's much closer to what the final design will look like. In the next round, the color scheme really starts to crystallize here. The borders around the grid items comes into play, and if you look closely, it kind of creates a shimmering effect because it has a different color on the top and the left than on the bottom and the right. You might not notice it when you first look at it, but it does create a bit of a flickering, a bit of a, as I said, a shimmer, which we quite liked. For a while, we also wondered what the accent color would be like. Here you can see it's this bronze muted orange color, but we tried out a few other things like mint green, a blue, a pinkish color. You can see here we also are starting to address what the artist's landing page looks like, and then we had an idea that we were kicking around for a while. What if after you landed on the side, the accent color, instead of picking one of these four, just morphs over time. So the longer you're on the sides, the more colors you will see. So after a minute or so, it might go from the screen to the blue where you almost don't notice it, but it's there changing. And we were excited about that for a while, and then eventually it got cut, that idea. We just thought it was maybe too unnecessary and maybe not decisive enough. So we really liked this almost metallic bronze color here and went with that. On the next round, we addressed the homepage. First, we, as you saw, really just focused on the project landing page. Then we looked at the artist's landing page, but eventually we were like, wow, what's happening when you first get to the side? What about the homepage? And here are two ideas. The first idea is a bit of a storyboards here. We were working through our ideas and created these key frames and how this would animate over time. So we were thinking that a designer that is part of the archive would be featured on the homepage for seconds. The name would be there. You would see when they graduated, what program they were in. And this type here on the bottom would be a marquee text. So it would be a ticker tape. It would move across the screen. And we would see one image from this project repeated. And the transition between one artist and the next would be that these thumbnail images would rotate and get smaller and vanish into the background. Then the name would go away. Then a new name would appear and the small thumbnail images would change to the new project. And those would zoom in to fill out the screen again. And the name would still be there and the text underneath would scroll. So that was one idea. And then the other idea would be that we have just one of these images from the project, the featured image of the project, big name, similar to the first idea, but the big name and the scrolling text, but it would be on a field that was created from the featured image, but blown up and blurred in the background. And then there would be a fade to the next one. So the background was would always be kind of this amorphous blurry field, but it would be different from one to the other, because it would depend on the featured image from the graduate who's currently being shown. And here's another test of that, that idea, the second idea we eventually went forward with. And then in the next round, we finally looked at first explorations of what the detail page would look like the project detail page, once you click on a project and look at it, and here you can see different ideas of how the typography could work and the grid or the meta information could work. Is it next to the featured image? Is it underneath different explorations, and still, you know, here's some overlapping of the image and the title, just quick, loose explorations of what is possible. And then here, finally, is the final file that we ended up with right before we started the coding, where everything has been decided on, the client signed it off, they were happy with it, we were happy with it. And we were able to move on. So we have our final homepage design. Here are the favicons, the little icons that that show up in the browser tab. The left one is when you're logged into the back ends, the right would be for the user to see. Here are the project landing page in different views for the grid. This is the small grid being selected. So you see more icons. Here, the large grid is selected. This is the medium grid. And then here, we also go through what happens when a filter is selected. And what happens when you click on the search button, search fields comes out. When you search for something, the view responds to that, and just shows one item in this case. Here is the artist landing page, the hover effect, and also the list being filtered. In this case, just by BFA students. Here is the artist detail page with a bio and some better information and then a list of the artist projects. Then the project detail page figured out. And some sample data here with a slideshow. And, you know, we also designed the footer here before the footer, you see more meta information with the categories and tags. And just to be sure, we also tried this out on another page that had multiple artists. To secondary pages, you know, they're fairly simple, but we just wanted to see what they would look like as well. And then here are our mobile explorations. They came with a And then here are our mobile explorations. They came later, we first designed everything for desktop, and then pared down the design that we came up with and made it work for the mobile screen, a small screen. And the biggest design challenge was to make the filters, look at those again, the filters that are here in a separate column, that obviously doesn't work on a small screen, how would they look and behave for a very small screen. And you can see that there is now a filters button that when you press it, the filter pops in, and you can make a choice. And once you made a choice, the filter collapses by telling us what's being selected or what's being filtered. And we can clear the filters. And we can, you know, open up the filter menu again by tapping on filters. You'll also see that instead of having multiple columns for these projects, we only see one per row. And even the caption isn't underneath the image, it's next to the image. So quite a bit of changes for you compare them here from desktop to mobile on the project landing page. The artist landing page, except for the filters is much easier because it's just a list of names. So not that many changes. And then here, we looked at the artist detail page and the project detail page. Mostly everything goes down to one column. That's the biggest, the biggest change. So yeah, this file, again, was the final one. From here, we took out the code editor and made it into an actual website.