Cool, let's talk about mock-ups. Let's do it. Let's do it. But first, you set out and gathered some inspiration. Right. Yes. Once we got to this point in the project, I was thinking about how the visuals will be represented and how would it look. So, you made a mood board? Exactly. So, I used Pinterest to make a mood board. Yours is on the left? On the left, yeah, PokeFresh. I was thinking about the fact that the restaurants open pretty much from sunset to sunrise, it made a lot of sense that since the food is Hawaiian, looked up Hawaiian sunsets and stuff and also, see, as the food comes from Hawaii, look at Hawaiian symbol and patterns in forms. I think that made a lot of sense, I think these two things together really, you know. Yeah, and we'll see in a second how that actually informed your visuals. Right. But maybe quickly about Pinterest, Alison, yours is on the right here. You were looking at a lot of Italian. Yeah, I was looking at a lot of Italian packaging, signage for my logotype because I was thinking that my logo would be more type-based. So, I was looking at both historical and contemporary type. I like using Pinterest because it's a free mood boarding program and it just allows you to see everything at once. So, I think it's really helpful. Yeah. Yeah. Not only that, you can also find really cool stuff, too. If you really want to go in on the visuals, a lot of that stuff is pretty. Or you can save your own photos that you have. Yeah. Or any photo on the web brand to Pinterest. So, it's a good tool to do that. All right. PokeFresh, here's the mood board, sunsets, colors, shapes. Let's see what happens. The homepage for PokeFresh. Mobile phone? Mobile app, right. So, start by looking at the logo. I did a logotype that blended both symbol and type. In a moment, we can look at the other logo variation and the process. Yeah. If you look at the background, there's a gradient going on and it represents a sunset and also a salmon color. So, it has both. This fish that is a big part of Poke. Yeah. It's a subtle light pattern inspired by a wave. The Order button looks like a little sun. Yeah, like a setting sun. Yeah. Or rising. It is setting. Yeah, these are leaves in the background, they were inspired by Hawaiian symbols and obviously, they represent that whole idea. Yeah. Well, not only that, too, but also Los Angeles because it's in Westwood. So, I was thinking a lot about knowing the area, there's some really nice sunsets over the summer. It's also pretty close to the beach on the West side of LA so I think it all fit in. The wave also features prominently in your logo. Let's actually look at the development. The development. Yeah. When I started looking at fish and stuff and thinking about it's a fish place, but that seemed a little on the nose and clunky. So, you see through the process. Originally, it was flat, like horizontal fish, and then maybe a curved one into a symbol that's supposed to represent just like a wave. Once we got to that point, it seemed like it was going in a better direction and for number four, I think we got to a good place there. Yeah. Because number one, two, and three, they also had the word PokeFresh next to it, so some topography as well. But then in the fourth version, you combined the topography and the logo. Right. So, the waves became [inaudible]. Yeah, and I think that made sense, too, because working on a mobile app, you do have more limited space versus web. So, to have both in one symbol. The wave also got a lot more refined, from three to four. But then the shape of the wave and number three, you also kept for some of the shapes. It was inspired anyway for the repeating pattern in the background. What else? So, we talked about colors, we talked about the logo. What about the topography itself? Yeah, I was thinking about the voice, too, voice of the site and then also navigation-wise, I wanted it to be pretty clear, pretty easy to navigate because someone might be [inaudible] Yeah. But as far as this stuff goes, like the "yeah, seriously", I used two different typefaces so that yeah, seriously is a Google font which looks more hand-drawn versus the sans serif which is Osmos, contemporary sans serif typeface. Yeah. Then I guess the "yeah, seriously" on, it adds more attitude. Yeah. It's a little bit, I don't know, is it snarky? A little bit, but it comes also from the personas that we looked at earlier, too. Yeah. Those influenced the way that the language is on the website for sure. It also provides a nice contrast typographically, just handwritten scribble over it. Yeah, form-wise. Yeah, and there's a couple of iterations also just at the homepage. This is your development process that you went through, left to right? Yeah. Exactly. While also developing the logo, you can see from left to right, some of the challenges I faced is just, like, "How do I place this massive fish logo?" I think that really informed my decision-making in terms of how I can get that to fit on the page and I think it made it a lot better once the logo and the type work combined. Also, just like refinement overall typographically, you can see there's a big change. But as far as the gradient and the sunset thing goes, that stayed pretty much throughout. Right. So, if you squint at these, they actually look somewhat similar but if you look at the details. Yeah. Your hierarchy of type and how you use icons and imagery changed over time, it evolved. Exactly. Got tighter. Especially if you look at the last, these all have the same hierarchy. Basically, these three forms of them got a lot more refined where the $10 Poke is the first thing. Because that's the main thing. It's cheap, they're not cheap, it's just affordable for for college students. Then the very last thing is even the "yeah, seriously" and the arrow pointing to the Order Now, that's one of the later moves that you added. Yeah, like adding another voice in later on. Definitely. Think that about covers it. Right. Right. Thanks.