Let me speak briefly about two terms that you might have heard about, or if you haven't, you'll probably hear about them soon as you deepen your knowledge of user experience design. The terms are waterfall and agile, and they represent two different approaches to UX. So what do these terms mean? The waterfall approach is a more traditional way of developing websites and apps. Remember all the phases we talked about in the previous lesson? I explained how each phase is built upon the previous one. And although there can and should be some overlap, it's still a fairly sequential process. One phase follows the next, and in the end, there's a big launch. It's just like a waterfall where the water starts at the top and plunges down in a rather linear way, hence the name. For many smaller websites, this process makes a lot of sense. You complete the UX process, then you develop, test, and launch. Afterwards, there might be smaller changes here and there, but the project is mostly completed. Using such a linear process for big and complex projects, however, can be treacherous. It's tempting to want to get everything completely right before showing your site or app to the world. Working with a waterfall process can mean many years of development before your product sees the light of day. And since nothing is tested until late in the process, chances are pretty high that the project went down the wrong path and the final product has serious flaws that cannot be easily corrected. And by now, lots of time and money have already been spent. That's where an Agile process offers an advantage. To stay with the water metaphor, you can think of Agile more like a wheel of a watermill. The Agile process is circular and iterative. Instead of planning for one big launch at the very end of a long process, there will be many launches along the way. The goal is not to get everything exactly right the first time, but to get something in front of a user as quickly as possible. This way, ideas can be tested by getting actual user feedback and the product can be shaped over time. With the Agile process, the product is never really done. Instead, there is an ever-evolving process that includes cycles of user experience design, development, testing, and launch. In Silicon Valley speak, people often talk about MVP and know this has nothing to do with the most valuable player. In the UX world, this acronym stands for Minimum Viable Product and it means that companies should focus on all the aspects of the product that are absolutely vital. Everything else is secondary and can be added later after the initial launch. To be sure, most startups are using an Agile development process these days. And for many apps and websites, that makes absolute sense. Think about Gmail, or TikTok, or ChatGPT for example, or Uber, or Airbnb, or Amazon. These sites and services are constantly being developed and they constantly change. They are never finished. And their current incarnation compared to maybe just a year ago is quite different. So where does this leave us and this course? Well, we'll be looking at things through more of a waterfall-y lens. Since many of you will be confronted with the UX process for the very first time, we'll talk about each phase one at a time sequentially, roughly one per week. Once you complete this course sequence, however, you should have enough background in UX methodology that you will be able to join an Agile team without problems. Remember, there will always be more to learn. For now, you should just know these terms, waterfall and Agile, and keep your ears sharpened when you hear other people voice their opinions about the pros and cons of each.