In this section,
we're going to look at some larger issues about how we might start
to organize our content. We're going to try and
create a hierarchy of what's important and what's less important. We're going to begin to think,
not just about what goes where, but about what goes where and why. So thinking about how our
app or website is used is actually going to help us to
think of a design structure. We'll be looking at
a hierarchy of function and thinking about what's
important to the user? What are the things that the user
is going to want to do first? And so those things might be more
important in our design layer. But we'll also be thinking about
what's not important to the user. What are the things that they
might not want to do straightaway? Or perhaps some people might not
want to do those things at all, as well as thinking about what's important
to the user, will also be thinking about what's important to the client,
which in this case might be you. What's the intention of the client? Why might you be making this app or website in the first place,
what's it really meant to do? It's important to maintain that hierarchy
and keep sight of your goals and your intention in making an app or
a website in the first place. As you add functionality, and
more options to your app or website, you don't want to lose sight of what
the goal was in the first place. So we have these two kinds of hierarchies
that are going to affect our content and affect our design structure. And ideally,
these two things will align perfectly. So the goals of the client
are reflected in how our interface is prioritized in terms of the
hierarchy of the design and the content. So let's look at how that might
work with a real world example. The very first thing you want to do
is to set the scene or set the tone. When you first open an app or a website that first impression is
going to be really really important. You have to think about what's
the first thing the user sees, because it's going to set the tone for
the rest of their experience. So the user opens your website or app,
they see what's in front of them, they form some kind of impression and
opinion about it, and then they act or engage or
react to what's in front of them. So very quickly, there's three things
that are going on with the user. They're seeing, thinking and
physically reacting. Let's use the CalArts poster website,
that we looked at earlier, and see how a user first interacts with that. When the website first opens,
a selection of posters is displayed. And these posters are preselected and
pulled randomly from a much larger group. So the goal is to show the user
some of the best posters, but also have them be different each
time the user visits the site. So if we ask ourselves, what's the first thing user sees
when they open this website, the answer would be a collection of really
exciting and energetic visual posters. But the design and
content of this interface are also going to tell the user
some other things as well. So they see all of these posters, but they
also can tell by the way that it's laid out, that this is some kind of
collection or some kind of archive. The site feels like it's more concerned
with visual form than textual information, for instance. So we know that it's a very
visually driven website, so the user has some kind
of expectation about what the rest of their experience on
this website is going to be like. In a lot of ways, the initial visual
experience that you give the user is a foreshadowing of the rest of the
experience that they'll have on your site. Once the user has formed
an impression of your site, the user is then going to
interact with it somehow. So you could ask yourself,
what's the first thing that a user does? I think the first thing would
be to click on a poster. Because it's a visually driven site, the user is probably going to get
pulled into that visual experience. So they'll either want to see more detail,
by clicking on a poster, or see more posters by
scrolling down the screen. So let's follow this through and see
what happens when you click on a poster. The poster fills the screen. And what's important here is that it
offers a different visual experience than the home screen that we started on. So there's a significant scale difference,
we can see much more detail. The visual experience is
immediately different. In a simple way, we're offering the user
a reward for spending their time clicking. So let's see what happens when the user
scrolls down to see more posters. Here very little changes,
visually at least. We're not trying to show
the user details and reward them with a new experience, instead
we're trying to show them the volume and breadth of the content that's
available on the website. Our goal is still to engage the user,
but we're doing it in a different way. So those are our two big moves,
in terms of interaction in our hierarchy. But we could ask ourselves,
what does the user do after that? They start to explore some of the mid to
lower level possibilities for interaction. So this means starting to explore
the interface a little bit more. There are navigation elements in
the interface, such as the timeline, or categories, or the search field, that
are lower down in the visual hierarchy. But they're much higher in their
specific functionality, so you're less likely to use them when
you first encounter a website and you're just browsing and looking around. And you're much more likely to
use them later on, when you have a specific intention or a specific
goal that you're trying to achieve. Let's look at how these hierarchies
of content, function, and design work on a handheld device. Instead of using something where
we've already made an interface, let's start from scratch. Let's build it up from nothing and see how these ideas of hierarchy might
shape our structure and our interface. So let's pretend we're
designing an app to get a cab. Let's look at what our goals might
be that might shape the interface. Our goals,
in terms of content and function, could also be termed as being goals for
the client and goals for the user. And in this case, those goals would
all be exactly the same, we'd want to get a cab as fast as possible, so
there's a clear primary singular function that's really going to drive the first
thing that the user sees on our screen. If we're going to get
a ride as fast as possible, there's several things that the user is
going to want to see all at the same time. First of all, we're going to need to see
our own location, where we are on the map. We're going to need to be able
to enter our destination. And we're probably going to want
to see what cabs are nearby that are going to be able to pick us up. And we need to have all of those three
things happening at the same time, simultaneously, to have a seamless and
fast experience. When we're designing
an interface like this, the first thing that we're really
doing is articulating the problem and figuring out what is a good solution for
that. We're not really thinking about any
specific visual solutions here. We're looking at the big picture and trying to give a structural
shape to our design. We're still trying to answer those larger
questions to do with hierarchy and organization. We're looking at what goes where and why? We're trying to figure out what
is the best visual solution, and what the main design elements are? We're thinking about
the hierarchy of those elements, where they're going to go within our
interface or within our whole experience? So we're really looking at all
of these much bigger moves, we're not getting caught up
in any design details yet.,