In this section we're going to continue
our discussion about hierarchy and composition within the interface. And we're going to look at some
ideas concerning conventions and expectations for both the web and apps. Our screens are often divided
up in very conventional ways and as user interface designers we have to
figure out how to use these conventions. But also create some kind
of variables within them. In terms of scale and visual attention, our content area is normally
the most important. Followed by branding and a couple of
levels of navigation or functionality. Before we figure out any details of
the design we have to figure out the relationship between
these four different areas. And each of these areas is
somewhat self contained. So we could spend a great deal of
time working on the elements and components of each of
these individual areas. The simplest structural division that we
can make is between the content that might change frequently and
the elements that might remain stable. Such as the branding and navigation,
which gives us a familiar and standard relationship between
the header and the body of our website. And once we've isolated
these larger areas or divisions we can start to think about how
they might be structured in more detail. If we look at the body of this
simple website, for instance, we could have a number of different
things going on in that one area. It doesn't have to be a single image or
a single activity, there could be multiple things
happening at the same time. And as soon as we have multiple things
happening our job as an interface designer becomes more complicated. We have to start to think about
spacing and structure, organization, and hierarchy. Conventions and familiar structures can help us deal with
these things quite quickly and easily. The web is often more concerned
with the content that's in the structure than
the structure itself. That structure quite often has to
be functional and fairly invisible. So it's okay if it's
familiar to some extent. Our expectation of the website is that
there are multiple things happening on one screen. We have a larger surface area so
it makes sense that there's more going on. But when we start to look at a phone and
look at apps on our phone, it's not quite the same. Instead of four things
happening on one screen, it's often one thing
happening on four screens. And those screens work together
to form a sequence of events. So our branding might be on a totally
separate screen before we get to our content. And even if we wanted to reiterate our
branding it would have to be done at a smaller scale. Because we have very little real
estate on the screen of the phone. So where everything is laid out in front
of us on a web page, for instance, on an app everything is hidden,
or condensed, or sequential. So quite often our navigation
is invisible until we need it. And any interaction will normally
eclipse the previous screen. So the components that make up a web
experience in a single page might have to be spread across multiple screens for
an app on the phone. Which intrinsically means we're traveling
from screen to screen on the phone, which is a little more
of a fluid experience. Which explains why even
though a website and an app are both screen based experiences,
they actually feel very different. Even if they have the same content
the app feels much more fluid. So while our content here is divided
across a number of different pages. There's definitely going to be some pages
where more of the elements are going to need to exist at the same time. And, again, there are formal conventions built
around functionality that we adhere to. And that could be where our branding
appears, how our navigation works with a swipe, or even where our menu bar is,
or what's in that menu bar. And these conventions
are constantly changing. We're moving towards that more fluid
immersive experience we talked about so we want all of our navigation and
other elements to be hidden. And if we're going to travel to other
screens we want to do that in a fluid way, not by clicking, but
by swiping and scrolling. Our phones act as windows, we can only
see a small amount of content on them. But we know there's a much bigger world
out there that we can move around in. So while we might only get one piece
of information or experience at a time, we know there are thousands more outside
the visible realm of our window. And that poetic explanation has
some practical implications. We don't want anything to get
in the way of our window, to get in the way of our small amount of
content we're looking at, our experience. So our menus become hidden or
as invisible as possible. On our website our five primary options
might be laid out on display, but on an app they're condensed and hidden. They live in a menu that we
don't see until we want to. And that menu itself is evolving,
again, to be more fluid. So instead of just being a drop down menu,
which feels like a web convention, we're now much more used to having menus
come in from the side with a swipe. And be much more smooth and fluid. The user interface for
our apps our like Swiss Army knives, they have multiple functionality. But everything is packed away until
you need that specific tool and when you need a tool there's many
different things to choose from. And they, generally,
are really good at doing just one thing. But until you need them they remain
packed away, they remain invisible. If the website let's it
all hang out on display, the app is much more based on a philosophy
of being hidden until needed. Our menus and navigation shouldn't
get in the way of the small visual field that is our only
place to show content. Even if we wanted to unpack our
options there'd be no room for us to lay them all out on the screen. If we have more than a couple of
options we're going to have to compact them down and create
an interface element that can hide them. We want to make sure that our user is
focussing on the content on our small screen. And because we have little real estate
it means that we have to feed them tasks one at a time. And because of this our apps tend
to be more focused on being very successful at a very localized and
specific task. When we need more real estate for complex tasks we tend to
switch to the computer screen. And this fundamentally affects
what kind of content or activity works well on
what kind of screen. For the UI designer it also shapes and
structures what we do. There are set conventions related to
what works best on these screens that we just can't escape. We have to figure out how to get
the most out of those conventions.