In the beginning of a project, take some time to look around at what already exists
in the world. This is an essential step in
every designer's process. If you're designing a new logo, you look at other logos. If you're designing
a new magazine, you go to the bookstore
and look at a bunch of magazines and if you're
designing a new website, well, you should look at
a lot of other websites. When my design studio worked on the new site for substance, an academic journal, we
naturally looked at many, many examples of existing
websites for journals. It allowed us to
survey the competition and investigate their
approaches to web design. This gave us a lot of inspiration of things
that we really liked, but it also provided examples of things we definitely
didn't want to do. Most importantly, we had context for the site we
were about to build, how it would fit into the
current web design landscape. At the beginning of a project, it's also useful
to ask your client what websites they like and why. You don't necessarily want
to get into a position where you are asked to copy something that already exists. But it's good to have an understanding of
what your client gravitates to and what
they absolutely dislike. They will, after all, sign off on what you
eventually design. Now you might find
that looking just at your direct competition isn't
always all that inspiring. I would suggest you also
get inspiration by looking at the very best website
design out there. Even more important
as a web designer, you should make it a point
to be aware of what's happening in the web
design industry at large. What are the most recent cool
and innovative websites? What are the trends? Who are the interesting makers and
thinkers in our community? What technological
innovations are happening? Here are a few recommendations of how to stay in the know. There are many showcase
websites that collect the most outstanding
examples of website design, the Site Awards, and note
what they're doing there with the three W's
is a great resource. It's a crowdsource platform where users vote on
designs submitted. The projects that get
the highest scores get awarded honorable mentions
or side of the day, side of the month,
or side of the year. You can browse the archives
to find a lot of cool stuff. I would even encourage
you to create your own account and start judging some of the
entries yourself. This will force you
to look at a website critically to determine
what scores for design, usability, creativity, and
content you would give. Plus, it's kind of fun. Other showcase sites you should check out are Site Inspirer, One Page Love, HTTP star, and the Webby Awards. There's really a
whole lot of them and these are just
some suggestions. Another great way to stay
informed is to follow the leaders of the
web design industry and read what they have to say. You know the people
that write books or important blog posts or
talk at conferences. Here are a few of
the people that I really like and
their websites. I'll note that
Chris Oyer founded the popular website CSS tricks. Jeffrey Zeldman started one of the oldest and most
influential web design blogs called Alysa Part, and Ethan Marcott is
the guy who coined the term responsive
web design in 2010. Here are a few blogs that
are tremendously helpful, inspiring, and influential. UX Collective and
Smashing Magazine have a strong focus
on user experience. Codrops is a fun playground with experimental and practical
user interface examples and a book apart publishes short single-topic books about user experience and web design. I also encourage you to sign up for weekly email newsletters. Here are a few great ones that distill the most
current happenings in the web design world into a weekly digest that
lands in your inbox. Web Design Weekly, UX Collective Codrops,
and Figmalan. This last one is all about
the design tool Figma. If you are into podcasts, give these a try
smashing podcast, Yo podcast and Shop Talk show. There's a lot of information out there and much of it is free. You just have to go and get it. The sheer volume of
all the resources can actually be
quite overwhelming. It takes time and energy to keep up with a
fast-moving industry, but it pays dividends to take the time to learn
from other people. Of course, I probably
don't have to preach this so hard to you. You are, after all, taking
this course, eager to learn.