One of the best ways to get insight
into user behavior is with actual data. If you're redesigning an existing site, chances are that you have access to
visitor stats of the current site that can tell you about the behavior
of users in the past. A common tool that collects
user data is Google Analytics. It's enabled by placing a tiny bit of
code onto every page of your site, which then captures user activity data for
you to evaluate later. This allows you to find
answers to questions like, how many people visit the site each day? As I mentioned, having actual hard
data can be very powerful, but any data analyst will tell you that it's
important to interpret data correctly. Otherwise, it can be a bit
like reading tea leaves. You see what you want to see. For example, if you found out that
your site had 1,000 daily visitors, is that a lot or not? Does it mean the site is successful or
not? If your goal was to grow the number
of visitors to 100,000 per day, it would be quite a failure. On the other hand, if your site had
only 100 daily visitors in the past, this would present a tenfold increase. I think that website stats are best
approached with specific questions in mind before you look at the data. Here are some example questions
that are more specific. What percentage of users visit
the site on a mobile device? Do they stay as long as desktop visitors? Or we ran a Facebook ad last week,
did this increase the amount of visitors? How many users use
Safari as their browser? Are my users mostly local, or
is there a sizable worldwide audience? Here is a quick real-world example. One of my clients,
the Pasadena Conservatory of Music, recently launched a new program for their
youngest students called Smart Start. I was hired to design promotional
materials for this and also to update the website
with new information. Naturally, we wanted to find out if our
marketing push had any measurable impact. In Google Analytics, we can bring up information of
the most visited pages over time. You can see here the graphs for
the month of July. On the right we see that the homepage was
the most visited page during this period. That makes sense since most
people arrive at the homepage. You can also see that the young musicians
page, the one we are interested in, was the second most visited page
at a little over 1,000 visits. We can isolate the graph for
the young musicians page. Here we see that there was a spike in
user activity for one week from July 19th through roughly July 25th, so
did our marketing push make a difference? It did, it increased the amount of
visitors to the Young Musicians page, which usually hovers around 25 per day
by 400% to over 100 visitors a day. Google Analytics is a powerful and
complex tool. It would take an entire course to
learn all of its capabilities. In fact, Google offers detailed free
courses to learn more about their product. Finding out a few fundamental facts about
your site's visitors isn't too difficult. Just remember, having a lot of data is worth very little
if you don't interpret them correctly. And in order to interpret data, you need to start with specific questions
that you'd like to be answered.