Let me talk about the mechanics of creating visual mockups. The first question is, of course, which software application should you use? In the early days of the web, the late 90s and 2000s, most designers worked in Photoshop. I myself designed my first websites in that program. Then for a while, Illustrator became a good option. And some print designers were even using InDesign because that was an application they were already familiar with. None of these programs are recommended for the contemporary web designer. In the 2010s, Sketch, Adobe XD, and Figma came onto the scene. These applications were specifically created for designing user interfaces, and they are still good options today, though Figma clearly leads the pack in popularity. Some more recent competitors are Azure, UXPin, Protopie, and Marvel. But I really only have one recommendation here, Figma. Since its launch in the late 2010s, Figma took the web design community by storm and quickly became the default tool for most interactive designers. It's really great software. It feels modern and intuitive, and the team behind it continues to innovate constantly. Figma has a cool multi-user functionality, meaning you can work on the same design file simultaneously with your collaborators. And since it's entirely cloud-based, sending a design to your client is as easy as sharing a link. Figma isn't free software, but it has a generous free starter plan. Plus, students who meet certain criteria can upgrade to the professional plan for free. Now, how do you learn Figma? Well, you could just jump in and get going and poke around. Some people learn best by doing. However, you're probably going to have a more enjoyable time if you set aside a few hours and watch some tutorial videos. Familiarize yourself with the most important tools and Figma's underlying concepts, such as frames, auto layout, and prototyping. I recommend heading to help.figma.com and checking out the Getting Started Guide. There, you will also find numerous video tutorials. Of course, also try Googling Figma tutorials for beginners and find a more recent video. That's one thing to remember. Figma is updated often, so if you are looking at resources older than a year or two, chances are that the interface has already changed. And if you are already somewhat advanced, check out the weekly newsletter Figmalion at figmalion.com. There, you will find news, tips, deep dives, and even some drama, all centered around Figma. Let me show you some examples of a few of my previous projects and how they look inside of Figma. Here's the file for the Substance site. We mocked up about a dozen of the most important pages of the site. Here's the Figma file for the Order site and the mockup for the website for the Performance Art Museum. And finally, the project archive for the CalArts School of Art. We'll take a closer look at this Figma file in the next lesson. We already know that it's important to address how your website adapts to different screen sizes. We discussed this at length during the wireframing phase. But the question now is, how many different sizes should you mock up? The smallest mobile phones out there are 320 pixels wide, so that's our lower limit. Most phones today, however, have a width of 360 to 430 pixels. Tablets and desktops usually have a width between 1,000 and 1,400 pixels. But there are also some really large screens with widths of well above 2,000 pixels. My recommendation is this. At the very least, create mockups at 320 pixels and 1,200 pixels. This will cover most mobile and desktop concerns. And then consider what happens when the screen gets bigger than 1,600 pixels, which covers very large screens. Here's an example from the Marciano Art Foundation website where we mocked up one page at six different screen sizes. That gave us enough insight into how navigation, margins, and column max widths would behave. Now, you don't need to mock up this many versions for every single page you're designing. We didn't. But doing this even for a few key pages, especially if you're employing some really complex design moves, will definitely benefit you. Another common difficulty is representing animations and transitions in static mockups. Think of interactive elements like buttons with hover states or animated menus. How do you communicate your ideas to the client and the developer? Well, Figma has certainly come a long way to help us mock up interactive sequences. You can create simple animations like hover states, dropdown menus, and slideshows quite easily with the help of Figma's prototyping capabilities. For more complex situations, you could simply use static storyboards to show specific states of your animations. Or you could actually create the animation using animation software like After Effects. Ultimately though, developing and testing your animations directly in the browser with CSS and JavaScript is ideal. This way, you're working with the medium itself and the code you write can be reused on the actual site. Here's an example of the Claret Cup website, a site for an LA-based architecture studio. These two mockups show a hover effect we envisioned for the project landing page. You can think of this as a storyboard. On the left is the normal state, the right shows the hover effect. When the mouse hovers over a project title, a thumbnail image appears behind the text. But we also had the idea that the thumbnail image would follow the movement of the mouse. And furthermore, the angle of the text would change as the user scrolls down the page. Well, mocking this up in Figma is basically impossible. So we developed these ideas right in the browser. Here you can see some early proofs of concepts that convinced us and the client that our idea would work. And this is how things look on the final site that we launched. Lastly, let's talk about the relationship between wireframes and mockups. Do you need to stick closely to your wireframes? Well, no. The primary purpose of wireframes is to outline the content structure, not dictate the final design. Having wireframes should help you create visual mockups more quickly because many structural decisions have already been made. But don't feel constrained by your wireframes. They're a guideline. And if your final mockups need to diverge from them, that's totally okay. Often it's even necessary. As you work on the mockups, you might realize that some decisions from the wireframing stage no longer make sense. You might not have thought everything through during the wireframing. Or you now have a new, even better idea. Always prioritize the best design solution, even if it means deviating from your original wireframes.