We want our digital
prototype to feel as real as it possibly can to
simulate the finished app. In order to do that, we need to simulate the platform
that the app is going to appear on. We need to simulate the interface and
simulate the interaction. The combination of all of these is
to simulate the overall experience. Before we get into the practicalities of
how to make our prototype, let's look at these different kinds of simulation,
some of which we've already talked about. In order to simulate the platform,
we need to think about scale, we need to think about physicality, and we need to put these together to create
a complete visual and tactile experience. So, our digital prototype needs to be
specific to the device that it's going to be used on. Our devices fill up different amounts
of space in our fields of vision. They may be vertical or horizontal, and we may be interacting with a hand or
with a mouse. For our prototype to feel real,
it needs to be on the right sized screen. Once we've chosen a physical device,
we need to think about simulating the interface, and we've
already done quite a lot of work on this. We want to user interface design
to be polished and believable, and we want the visual and the verbal content
that we have to be believable as well. Rather than a generic wireframe,
we want to have actual content and actual interface design elements combined to be
as close as possible to our finished app. And once we have these static pieces at
the right size on the right platform, we have to think about how to simulate the
interaction that the user will have with our app. And again,
we've already done work on this. We've got a wireframe map that gives
us a believable UX experience where we thought about the paths that
the user is going to take, and we thought about how they might interact
and respond with individual screens. The logic and flow of our interaction
is already quite resolved. When we add together all these
different kinds of simulation, we should be able to simulate
the entire experience of our app. So, we need to have believable UI design, a believable UX design, and
a believable platform or context. These work together to simulate
the complete app experience for our users. So, a believable UI design means that
our prototype needs to be on a screen. Believable UX design means that our
prototype needs to be interactive, and a believable platform or context means our prototype needs to
be running on a real physical device. In a lot of ways,
we want to trick the user into thinking that our prototype is real and
a fully programmed app. But of course, it isn't, and
it's worth remembering that we're still in the testing phase here, there still
is the possibility for change and improvement because we're still
in this preprogramming phase. Now, rather than learning how to
program or working with a programmer, we're going to use some simple digital
prototyping software to produce our prototype. There's lots of different software to
choose from and some of it's free, but I would suggest you find one that suits
your budget, one that's easy to learn and use, and
one that does the things that you need. For the sake of the demos in this course,
I'm going to use Figma, I like this software because
it's easy to learn and use. There are a lot of resources in the form
of templates, UI kits, online learning and a community of fellow Figma users,
it's quite a flexible tool. I can prototype apps or websites or pretty
much anything, and there are frequent updates to the software, so it's always
getting more and better functionality. It's also considered an industry
standard in a lot of organizations, design studios and teams. Most of the prototyping software that's
out there works in a similar way. So, if you don't use Figma, the knowledge
you have is still going to be transferable and easy to apply to
whatever prototyping tool you do use. For the demos that we use in this class,
were going to keep it pretty simple. You can probably build a much more complex
digital prototype than the one that were going to build. If you want to do that, I'd advise
you to take a tutorial and check out the UI kits and the wireframe templates
that are available for free, now. There's a range of different ways you
can build your digital prototype and how you do that might depend on your area
of interest or your specific skill set. You could use pre-existing components
within the prototyping tool to build a set of generic wireframes and
use that as your prototype. Or you could use the existing
static screen designs and make invisible interactive areas. Or you could rebuild all of your designs
in Figma or whatever program you're using. There are pros and cons to all three
of these different approaches. The fastest and easiest way to build
something might not give the most realistic simulation of your app for
the user. And it would be nice if you could utilize
the interface screens that you've already designed and spent time on refining. But you might find that
you have to adjust or rebuild some of your screens to
get the most out of the software. So, it's helpful to consider the pros and cons of each of these prototyping
strategies if you want to use pre existing components to build a generic
wireframe for your prototype. The good news is that it's fast to build,
it's going to look like a professional wireframe, and
it can work in any operating system. It's also going to be great for
testing your user experience. The bad news is that it's going
to look fairly generic and it's only going to function
as a wireframe, so you won't get as much information
back from the user testing. There's also limited design involved,
so it may be less effective for testing out many aspects of
the user interface you've designed. If you were going to build your prototype
with pre-existing kits or components, you'd have a range of
pieces that were pre-made that you could choose from in
order to make your wireframe. And there are literally
hundreds of these pieces, and while they're all very generic,
they work together as a set really well. So, if you were to make your digital
prototype using these pieces, it would look very coherent,
very cohesive, and you'd learn a lot about
the user's interactions. The interface design basically wouldn't
get in the way of the user experience. You could also use pre-existing components
from a certain operating system, whether it's Apple or Android. Let's see what some of
the screens look like for the lost Pet app, if I build them as
generic wireframes, first of all, there's a generic map I can use,
so that's pretty handy. There are also standardized icons and
symbols I can use, and I can color those whatever I need to. I can scale them up and down and position
them wherever I want to on the map so I'm able to shape the design a little bit. My other interface elements
would be pretty generic. If I need menu items, they'd be standard
symbols and generic typeface and size. The same would be true of other
information in my interface, which would all be standardized in
terms of color, shape and system. The benefit of all this is that I know
all these pieces are going to work in harmony together, so
I end up with a functioning map. Although it's not very
visually compelling, I can use generic elements
to make a sign up screen. And here the size and
weight of my typography is predetermined, as well as the spacing
between my elements. Each component of my
interface is standardized, as long as I make sure my navigation
items appear in the same place on different screens,
there's going to be consistency. And it's not just the elements that are
consistent, it's how I'm using them and positioning them to establish
a common structure across my screens. Then I could take elements
from my first screen and quite easily copy and
paste them into exactly the same space. I can even add a keyboard that's
already been made for me. So, all I've really done is copy and
paste these generic elements, and I've already got three screens
that work together in harmony. This kind of design is great when it's
used for the purpose that it was intended for as a wireframe, it's really focusing
on the functionality of the interface, less so
than on the visual aspects of the design. In the next video, we'll consider
the other two options you might consider as you're building your prototype.