Allison, Bradley, hello. You are here to talk about your project that the Coursera students will also complete. You've already completed it and we'll talk about every single project step that you've gone through and get some insight into your thought process. What you've learned along the way so that the students can learn from you. Allison, tell us about your project idea. Okay. So, my restaurant idea was Pici Pasta, and it was going to be a fresh take on Italian classics for office parties and business meetings. It will be a sophisticated catering experience for employees and their clients. So, my main target audience was catering for businesses and offices in Santa Clarita, California. Santa Clarita is right around here with CalArts is situated. Yeah. Suburban? Yeah. You know the area? Yeah. I've been here for four years, so I kind of get the lay of the land and what the culture is like up here. So, be more of a upscale catering service for these offices and businesses. Since it was customizable pasta, I wanted to do customizable salads, pastas, and wine and drinks. Those are their customization options. Yes. Yeah. Pici pasta, what about the name? It's cute. I thought it was a nice alliteration of pici as a type of pasta that we would cater to them. I thought it rolls off the tongue nicely. It does, it's good. It does, yeah. Other ideas that you didn't go with, what were those? So, before I was thinking about doing affordable customizable salads for senior citizens in Toledo, Washington. But I had never been there and I wouldn't know the audience to offer that. It's a nice challenge, right? How do you do something for rather old people. Yeah. But you felt like it was a little bit too far from your comfort zone? I felt like I didn't really know the context of the situation. Then, my other idea was to do customizable smoothies for Los Angeles Silverlake parents. Kind of the hip area in Los Angeles? Yeah. Clearly like a hipster cool, the vibe. But I think it would have been less challenging and less interesting for me to take on instead of doing like a corporate pasta project. Which is challenging because corporate isn't necessarily doesn't come with fun and cool baked in, so you're going to have to figure out. Yeah, like sophisticates office vibe. Yeah. But you're planning to make it cool and fun. Cool. That's the challenge, cool. All right, Bradley. Okay. Yeah. I did a poke, poke ordering system called PokeFresh. So, it take place or it would be in Westwood, California, which is around UCLA. Urban environment? Urban environment, yeah. My little elevator pitches inspired by authentic Hawaiian poke. We bring authentic, high quality, and affordable poke to Westwood Village. We're only open from sunset to sunrise. So, yeah, since it's only open from sunset or sunrise, I was thinking the target audience would be either late night party goers or people that stay up late to study. So, two different groups of people that go to college. Also, I know the area well, have a lot of friends that went there. So, I know that they would probably use it for sure. So, it's a customization based, you'd have your base which would be like white rice, brown rice, salad or like a mix. You'd have your protein, so poke has fish. It's like a sushi salad almost from Hawaii. So, you'd have your tuna, albacore, that kind of stuff. Like a sauce, like a Ponzu. Sides, so your crabmeat, seaweed, and then toppings like onion or carrot and some ginger. Your customers will be able to go through it and choose exactly what they wanted on their bowl. Yeah, they can customize it however they want. My other ideas earlier were like either a Bento box place in Hong Kong for latchkey kids. So, kids that are home a lot and their parents are gone. But I'm not familiar with that lifestyle at all, I don't know anything about that. But you had a fun name. Yeah, Bentobib will be the name. Yes. But also I thought of like an ice cream parlor in Ann Arbor, Michigan called Hastings. I thought it sounded like it could actually be a real place, but I think the logistics of how you deliver ice cream would be kind of difficult. How you get it to take out without melting? Yeah. It might melt on the way. and like it's kind of humid in Michigan too, so you never know. Also, a pizza place in Williamsburg. That's in New York? Yeah, Brooklyn, New York. Like a hip place called like Bodhi-zza, like a vegan pricey, like the vegan pizza thing. Cool kind of pizza. Yeah, but there's already too many places that deliver pizza. Yeah. Have you been to Williamsburg before? Yeah, I have been there. Okay. But I think it's just too expected almost. But, in general, I guess we could say for the Coursera students to pick something that you're familiar with is helpful. Yeah. Yeah. I guess it was helpful for you guys Westwood. So, it was in the area, Santa Clarita, suburban and yours is just but a half an hour away here and you've been there. But since you have to put yourself into the shoes of the clients because you're not working with a third party that can tell you what's going on in Hong Kong or Ann Arbor, Michigan. Right. It's helpful to know the area for this project. Yeah. Yeah. To give like a vibe to what we're catering to. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Seems like exciting projects. Cool. So, let's see what happens. Cool.