In this section, we're going to shift our focus a little bit. We're going to look much more at visual research, and look and feel. So far, we've developed our idea, we began to test our idea, and we began to map our idea. Now, we need to take all of these to the next stage. We need to develop a more definitive sitemap. We need to develop wireframes that we can use in testing, and we need to develop our visual direction. In the real world, you might be working on all three of these things at the same time because they're all interrelated. We have a sitemap, wireframes, and visual direction. Our sitemap is basically a more developed version of our content map. Our wireframes are generic sketches showing what goes where on each frame. Our visual direction is concerned with the design and aesthetics of our user interface. Developing any one of these areas is going to have an effect on the other two. It's hard to create wireframes without having a sitemap and knowing what it is you're creating, or without having some rough visual direction so you know which elements are going where in your wireframes. I would say the sitemap is the most important, followed by the wireframes because I really need to have resolved my sitemap before I can start making my wireframes. With digital tools, you might be developing your sitemap and your wireframes at the same time. Visual direction is often the thing that's left until the end, but because of my graphic design background and my design-centric approach to UI/UX, I'm actually going to look at the visual direction first, partly because I want the visual direction to have more impact on my wireframes, and my sitemap, and my eventual app, and also because we haven't touched on the area of visual direction yet. Within the process that we've been following, we've done various exercises that have contributed to our sitemap, and to our wireframes. Our content map and user flowchart will form the basis of our sitemap. Our user flowchart and our non-visual paper prototype will in form our wireframe design, but there's nothing so far to help inform our visual direction. The only thing we've really done that involved looking at visual direction or UI is to look at our competition. So, we've seen what other people have done in terms of visual direction, but we haven't really done anything ourselves. Indeed, our visual direction is much more of a UI than a UX problem, and I cover this in much more detail in week two of visual elements of UI design. So, let's do a fast recap on how to develop a visual direction. We're not trying to figure out any details to the user interface design here, we're really looking at the big picture. We're trying to envision what our overall design direction is, what the overall look and feel of our app is going to be. We're doing this fairly early in our process. We're doing this before we get into the details of design or before we get into production. But mostly, before we commit to a format or a structure for our app, I want the design to help shape our app even at this early stage. We are doing the same thing with design that we're doing with UX. We're trying to imagine and envision the design and the experience before it actually exists. We're trying to visualize the invisible, and I'm forcing design into the equation here because I'm a firm believer that design can make the difference between a successful and unsuccessful app. So, let's quickly run through the example that I used in the UI course. Here, I was working with the idea of a digital microscope for amateur scientists that utilized the camera on your phone, and I wanted to visualize that in two different directions. One that was much more fun, and one that was a little bit more serious. It's easy to see that those two different directions would focus on different audiences, but they might also fundamentally affect what the app is and how it works. It could affect the entire structure of the app, so it would affect the sitemap and it would affect the wireframe as well. In developing visual direction, one of the first things that you do is visual research. So, you're basically collecting a series of images that reflect the content, and the attitude, and the look and feel of your app. So, I have a digital microscope for amateur scientists and I want it to be fun. So, I'd collect images that tried to reflect that, I might want to use illustrations rather than photographs. I'd be looking at both form and content that worked with my idea. I could think about typefaces and a color palette that would work with my idea as well. I could gather this visual research into a digital space or into an analog space. The next stage would be to take my visual references and put them together in some composition that would give me the look and feel of my app. I might not use any of these individual elements in my final design. My goal here is to create the mood of my app, so this mood board looks playful, fun, energetic, and probably for a younger audience. By contrast, my serious direction should obviously look much more scientific, more realistic because it's for a more serious audience So, while some of the content is the same as my fun direction, it clearly has a very different look and feel even at the research stage where I'm just pulling images. Again, I take my research and compose it into a mood board and this feels very different from our fun direction, it feels much more scientific for a more mature audience, it's much more photographically based, so it feels functional and real. So, how this app functions, and how it's structured, the very app itself could be very different from our first version. You can see that the design direction can really affect the entire app.