Before we start making the form of our wireframes, let's look at some simple theoretical guidelines that might help us. If you look online, many UI, UX designers will cite Jakob Nielsen's 10 Rules of User Interface Design. While they were a little outdated and apply more to interface design, for software programs, there's still a lot of really great foundational and fundamental information in there for anyone designing an interface. If a set of rules has managed to hang around in the shifting digital landscape for nearly 30 years, there's got to be some truth in them. So, let's look at Nielsen's 10 rules, and we'll try and unpack them. Number one is the visibility of system status. What this means is, let the user know what's going on, let the user know that the app is live and working. Number two, match between the system and the real world. What Nielsen means by this, is to use words and forms that the user already understands from the real world. In other words, don't make the user learn a whole new "language" for the interface. Use symbols and icons that already have meaning attached to them from the real world. Number three, user control and freedom. What this really means is that we all make mistakes. So, it's important to make sure that the user can have either undos or redos, or in the case of an app, more likely that they'll need to backtrack to an earlier screen. Number four, consistency and standards. What Nielsen means here, is just to use repetition, consistency, and similarity to help speed things up within the interface and to help develop intuition in the user. So, you only have to learn how to work the interface once. After that, the rest of it should make sense. Number five, error prevention. So, don't create situations where mistakes happen. If the user does make a mistake, make sure that you give them an easy way out. You want the user's interaction with the interface to be easy and seamless. Number six, recognition rather than recall. So, don't make the interface hard work for the user. The user should be able to see the part of the interface that they're going to interact with and recognize immediately that that's the place, the point, or site of interaction. So, the user is reacting immediately rather than going through a series of remembered actions. Number seven, flexibility and efficiency of use. Think of your interface like a car, some users are going to want to drive fast, and some are going to want to go slow, but they're both going to want to get to their destination with this little fast as possible. Number eight, aesthetic and minimalist design. This is a familiar modernist rule. You don't want any unnecessary information distracting you from the necessary information. In interface design, the familiar phrase "less is more" often applies. Number nine, help users recognize, diagnose, and recover from errors. What this really means, is that if there's a problem, provide the best solution for the user quickly and easily. If you solve the problem quickly, it's like it never happened. Finally, number 10, help and documentation. You should provide help for the user, but keep it hidden until they need it. Nobody wants instructions that they don't really need. So, let's try and keep these broader interface rules in the back of our mind as we're working on our wireframes.