So, we're starting out at the very beginning of our project, let's talk about ideas and goals. You've been asked to come up with an idea for an app that solves a problem for you, and this initial idea is really up to you, it can be whatever you're interested in. I can't give you that initial idea but what I can do is give you a way to test whether your app idea is really going to work. It's okay if a similar app already exists for your idea, because you're going to deal with it in a different way. So, let's say my initial idea for my app is one that gives me recipes for food that I have already in my kitchen. Like all beginning ideas, it's very broad and it could go in many different directions. So, first of all try and be as specific as you can, try and articulate your idea as clearly as you can. So, on the one hand you want to really expand your idea, you want to try and explore all the different possibilities that it could have, but you also want to look at those possibilities and decide which ones you're going to use, which ones are really relevant. These two activities seem like they're almost in opposition to each other, but when you put them together you have a process and that process helps you develop your idea. It's a simple strategy in a lot of ways, it's figuring out what questions to ask and then answering those questions. Let's look at my leftover food app and see what kind of questions we might want to ask about that. My starting questions could be quite broad and gradually get more and more focused as I define what my app really is. So, I could start out by asking what does it do? And how does it work? Quite simple and broad questions. I could also think about the audience, who's going to benefit from my app? And why would somebody use this in the first place? So, while these questions are broad, I'm going to have to come up with more specific answers and those specific answers are going to help me define more specifically what my app is, and this is going to make it be different from all the other apps that do the same thing. I'm going to take it in a slightly different direction. So, let's first of all ask, what does my app do? Well, it creates recipes that use only existing food from your kitchen, but it could do other things too, so let's explore some of those. It could suggest additional food to purchase for recipes. It could also keep track of my tastes, so that it could customize recipes for me. It could store and share my recipes and maybe let me see the recipes of others. So, if your app is going to do more than one thing, it's useful to create a hierarchy of the function of your app. So, which of these things is the most important. I would say that the primary goal is the first one that I came up with, to create recipes using existing food. But perhaps I might need just one more ingredient or two to make a really great recipe. So I'd have to go to the store and get those. So, suggesting additional food to purchase for those recipes would probably be my second most important idea. I think the storing and sharing of recipes is also pretty important, it would help create a community and it would also make me use the app more than one time. And finally, tracking my tastes and customizing recipes just for me would probably be the lowest thing in my hierarchy of functionality. So, let's take the four things that our app is going to do and organize them to visually represent their importance. So, we've got a hierarchy of functionality and it's really important that we remember this and stick to it. We don't want to get sidetracked and make something minor be the focus of our app. Our hierarchy function is also a hierarchy of ideas. We're going to spend a little more time articulating that big idea, but all of our other ideas won't go away, they're just hiding behind the big idea, they're still there and they're going to provide a supporting role, but they're a little less important than our main idea. So, let's spend some time focusing on that first. If we're clear on that big idea, it's easier to convey to somebody else what our app is really all about, and one of the ways to do this is to come up with a really tight and accurate one line description. You could use the prefix My app..., and then think about how to fill the rest of that sentence in. So, you could think about how you use language and tone to describe your app, but also just the words themselves having no wasteful or extraneous language there. Think about the specifics of each word. So, my app now suggests delicious recipes. It doesn't create the recipes, it suggests them and notice that the recipes are now delicious, they're not regular recipes anymore. Let's go back to the four big questions that I asked you earlier about your app. We're going to turn each of these into a class to try and help you to answer these questions. So, our first question, what does it do? We've already looked at in this class and we've answered that by using a strategy that involves ideation and articulation. We've now got a clear one-line description of our app and a bunch of supporting ideas to go along with that. Our next question is going to be, how does it work, and I don't mean how does it work technically, I mean how does the app achieve its goal and the goal should be clear in your initial statement. In my case it's about suggesting delicious recipes and using up ingredients that are already in your kitchen. So, I'm going to need to do some research into my content and into my competition, I want to know if something similar exists and if it does, I want to solve that problem in a better or more engaging way. We're going to look more closely at who benefits from our app, not just the audience but perhaps the client as well, why are we even making this app in the first place. Is it for fun, is it for social good, or is it to make money? And lastly we're going to examine a little more deeply why would someone use our app in the first place? We're going to figure out our goals and our outcomes, what we want the user to have achieved in going through our app, and we're going to make sure that those goals and outcomes are achieved, because if they're not we're going to have to go back and reevaluate all of the other questions we've asked ourselves. To be clear, we're engaged in a process here and it's not always a linear one. Quite often it's going to involve some back and forth and even some modification to your ideas as you develop them and refine them.