The UX process as I follow it in my own practice, and as I will teach it to you in this course sequence, follows five main phases. Here they are, strategy, outline of scope, sitemap, wireframes, and visual mock-ups. We will cover each of these phases in detail, roughly one phase per week. And you can gain experience and a deeper understanding of each phase by practicing what you learn while working on a project that will span the duration of this course. I will introduce the project at the end of this week's lectures. For now, let me give you a quick overview of each phase. I will illustrate the deliveries for each phase with examples from a web design project that I have worked on. A little while ago, my design studio, Ye Brigade, was tasked to design a project archive website for the CalArts School of Art. The website showcases all final projects from the students in the School of Art at CalArts. One additional note though, I have to give some credit to an influential book called The Elements of User Experience by Jesse James Garrett. I was exposed to a lot of the concepts that I am teaching in this course for the first time while reading this book many years ago. In fact, the book has been one of the top influential texts for the web design community. Our process starts with the strategy phase. Here we are asking a lot of fundamental questions. What are our goals? Who are our users? What are their needs? Here are some pages from a large strategy document that we prepared for the project archive project. We defined goals and objectives for the site and determined who our users are. We also created a few user personas for our target audience. The next phase is to create an outline of scope. This is simply a list of content and functionalities that need to be included in the site to fulfill the goals set up in the strategy phase. Next up is the site map. Here the content and functionality from the previous phase is structured into a cohesive whole. We determine the navigational structure of the sites and come up with labels for the navigation categories. The fourth phase is about creating wireframes. Here our focus shifts from the site as a whole to individual webpages. Wireframes are simple sketches of the structural makeup of a webpage. You can see here, for example, wireframes for the artist detail page on the left and the project detail page on the right. Notice that higher level concerns such as which typefaces we will use and which images and which colors are not addressed here at all. You can think about wireframes kind of like architectural blueprints. They show what goes where without getting hung up on finer design details. And then lastly, we have the visual mockup phase. Now it's finally time to determine the visual identity of the website. For graphic designers, this is obviously the funnest part of the process. You get to think about colors and typefaces. You'll figure out how images are treated. Maybe you create textures or icons or illustrations. You can see here that we worked on the visual mockups for the project archive in Figma. And we created two sets of mockups, one for bigger screens, the desktop side, and another for small screens, the mobile side. So that's it. These five steps will form the structure of our process in this course sequence. You will learn about these steps in detail and can practice them on the class project. And hopefully you will use these tools in your web design work after you complete this course.