There are a few additional
things I want to point out in conjunction with these five UX phases. I think it's helpful to realize that
the concerns you are addressing in each of these five steps shift over time. At first, you are dealing with
very abstract matters, and along the way things become more and
more concrete. You could also say that the beginning
phases are not at all concerned about the final shape of the sides. When you contemplate your goals and
your users in the strategy phase, it doesn't really matter yet what kind
of grid your pages will eventually have. Or if the background color will be yellow,
or if you will employ a san serif or
a serif type phase. Such decisions, which very much
determine the final shape of the site, are addressed in the later
phases of the UX design process. By the way, one realization of the initial
strategy phase might be that you shouldn't be building a website at all. Maybe you realize that an app or
even a printed piece or a video are much better suited to
fulfill the goals for the project. Again, in the beginning of the project, the shape of the final
product is wide open. Also, you might have noticed that so far I've been talking about this
process in a very linear fashion. In this diagram, one project
phase neatly flows into the next, the reality, however,
is often more complicated. In fact, it's important to reevaluate
decisions made earlier as new realities become clear. There should be a certain amount
of flexibility in our process for modifying decisions made during an earlier
phase that later turn out to be untenable. That doesn't mean it's desirable for
you to change your target audience or your main goals at the very
end of the project, that would probably mean that
the process has failed you. But you might, for example, realize that
your sitemap wasn't completely figured out as you work on your wireframes. A final question that you
might wonder about is what happens after the visual mockup phase? Well, then, it's time to actually build
the website, which means coding it so that it can be displayed in a web browser. Or if you're working on an app,
it needs to be coded so it can work on a mobile device. In a later class, I will be talking
more about the coding languages that make websites work,
namely HTML, CSS and JavaScript. And I will address the question
if it's important as a web designer to know how to code. I myself have a deep background in coding,
and after the visual mockups are completed, I will often start
coding the websites I designed myself. You might code your websites yourself too,
or you might collaborate with
a programmer who will code the sites. In any event, after the development,
there would be a testing phase, and after that the site would launch. So, to complete the story of
the Calardz project archive website, here's how the site looks like
today as I'm recording this video.