In this section, we're going to look
at how to develop a more accurate and advanced Sitemap. We already built a very
simple content map, and that was useful in planning and
developing our content. We also built a user flowchart. And that was useful in showing how
the user would travel through our content. Both of these examples were really
tools to help us develop our idea and our content. Now we want something more
concrete which is our sitemap and we're going to use that
sitemap to build wireframes. And will use those wireframes
in user testing, so our sitemap needs to be
a little more concrete. We're starting to commit
to the shape of our app. Our site map is going to follow
quite closely our user flowchart. We can build off that and change it. We need to take into
account any feedback or ideas that we got from our
preliminary paper prototype testing. We're also moving towards
creating wireframes. So I'm going to use a graphic of
a phone to hold my information. I'm going to use my lost pet app
as an example to build a sitemap. I'm going to roughly follow
the structure of my user flowchart. So the first thing I'm going to
need is an identity or splash page. That's going to take me to my map page,
but only provided I have an auto login, so if I'm a returning user, for example. If I'm new I have to sign up,
or enter my location. So depending what I choose
to do on this screen, I'm going to get a different
follow up screen. If I want to sign up or log in, there's a couple of different
ways that I could do that. I could enter a name, and a password, or
I could use Google or Facebook to log in. So for each of these possibilities,
no matter how small, I'm going to have create
a separate screen. So I'd need a screen for my Google login,
and I'd also need a screen for my Facebook login. If I was creating an account, I'd need to
add some additional information in there, perhaps address, city, state, and zip. So we've already made quite
a few different screens, and we haven't even really got to our map yet to make any choices about what
we want to do with our app. There's a lot of different screens here,
but the user would actually travel
through them very quickly. Like our user flowchart, let's connect the screens to see
what the pathways could possibly be. From our identity screen, we could go straight to the map
if we automatically log in. If not,
we'd need to enter some information. We could type in our name and
our password, or we could use Google or
Facebook to log in to our app. Because our app is primarily going to
work with a GPS system in our map, we might as the user for more information,
such as their home address. Collectively, all of these screens
are just about the log in process. And we could color code those so we know which area of our map
all of these screens belong to. Once we've logged in, we're going to want to get to our real
map where we can start to use the app. If I was a returning user with auto
log in, I'd go straight to that map. If I was a returning
user without auto log in, I could enter my name and
password and get to the map. Or if I was signing up for an account, I'd have to enter a little bit more
information before I could get to the map. So you can see as I'm making my app, I'm trying to think through
the user's experience. I'm using information that I learned
from both my user flowchart and my content map to make this more
developed and accurate sitemap. Once I've got to my map based home
screen I can choose from three different main activities. I can search for a pet, or I can post
information about a lost pet, or a found pet. There might be other things I
can do from this home screen, but let's concentrate on these three for
now. Let's start out by looking at what
happens when we search for a lost pet. I have three different
ways that I can search. I can search by species or breed,
by name, or by description. Let's presume for now that we're
using our automatic location. Whatever information I enter I
then get a series of results. There could be one or
two results, or more. The user would want to search
through these results and probably see more detail from any of
the results that seemed relevant to them. So that means we'd have to
create a different screen and think about what kind of information about
the lost pet should appear on that screen. There could be the dog's name,
perhaps a photograph of the dog, the date it was found and a description,
and probably contact information as well. So you can see, as we're building this
sitemap, we're getting a little bit more focused and more detailed with
our content and our user flow. We're treating our app idea In
a more realistic and pragmatic way. If the user finds their lost animal,
they're going to need to contact that person or somehow confirm with the app
that the animal belongs to them. They might then want to go back to
the main map where their animal might now show up as being claimed. At any stage of this search process, the user should be able to retrace their
steps and go back to the previous screen. Collectively these screens form another
section that are all to do with searching for a lost pet. So we could color code those so
we know that they all belong together. And this is going to help with our visual
organization as our sitemap becomes more complicated. Let's look at one of the other main
activities that we can do from our home screen. Let's investigate what the user might
need to do if they wanted to post information about a lost animal. They'd probably want to post as much
information as possible in order to get the best results. A user might be following this pathway
if they've already searched for their lost animal and haven't found it. It can help your thinking
if you put yourself in the position of a user
who's actually using the app. Once I've entered all my information,
I probably want to check it and then confirm it before I post it. And if something was wrong, or I needed
to correct it, I'd need to be able to get back quite easily to the previous
screen to make that correction. And once I've posted the information
about my lost animal, I'd probably want to go back to the map
which could give me visual confirmation that my posting was successful, because I
could see my lost animal within the map. Even though there is a lot of
user activity in this section, it's only represented by two screens. But again, I could color-code them, so that I know it's a different
area with a different focus. The last main event from my home screen
would be to post information about an animal that I'd found. These screens could follow
pretty closely the ones for posting about our lost animal, since
it's a lot of the same information, and almost the same structure. So I'd have a screen to
enter all of my information, and then another screen to confirm and
post that information. I think the user would also do the same
thing that they would return back to the map so they could see that the animal
that they'd found had been posted and recorded on the main map interface. We can color-code this section as well,
and our color coding is especially useful
since a lot of these activities might happen in windows that are floating over
the top of the map in the background. So far, our sitemap is showing us
the main activities of our app. So once we've logged in, we're just looking at the three
main activities right now. But there are several secondary or
perhaps less important things that our app allows us to do, and all of those
are accessed from the home screen as well. So we're going to have to reorganize
how that's represented in our sitemap a little bit. Some of the other activities that we
looked at were posting to Facebook, maybe contacting a local pound or
perhaps adopting a pet. I could also sign up for alerts. So if my lost pet was found
I'd know straight away. So, there's going to be a lot of
things happening in my main screen. It also has to act as a background and
have other fields or other windows floating on top of it. I'm going to enter my search information
and get my search results here as well as posting information for
lost or found pets. This screen is going to be
the central hub of my app. It's going to be the trickiest screen
to resolve in terms of UI and UX. And that's true of most app, where our activities are centralized
around a single home screen.