Since HTML, CSS, and JavaScript are the fundamental languages for web design, I want to spend a little bit more time talking about the differences and why we have three different languages. I sometimes sense that especially in the beginning, there's a little confusion about that. So, let's start with HTML and CSS. If we were to describe what makes them separate from one another, we could say the following; HTML has to do with markup that's in the name, HyperText Markup Language and CSS has to do with styling. HTML deals with content while CSS deals with how that content is presented. So, you can see that HTML deals with the question, what is it? Is it a headline or an image or a paragraph? CSS deals with the question, how does it look? What color is it? How big is it? Where's it located? That kind of stuff. Then as a metaphor, you could say that HTML is kind of like a noun in language while CSS is like an adjective. To take our metaphor just a little bit further, let's think of an object like a ball. HTML's job is to simply say what kind of content it is. So, it's a ball. It's almost like a platonic idea of a ball. There's no other description of it. It's simply is a ball. But CSS is able to describe the ball visually. So, you could have a black and white ball or a black and yellow ball or a ball that is completely red. But to do an example that is a little bit more realistic, we can have a headline. That's something that HTML is good at describing. There's attack called h1 that describes a first-level headline and it simply means on this document, the text, Welcome, is the main headline. Now, we don't know what that looks like yet and that's where CSS comes in. It could be just a simple serif typeface and a fairly small size and a black color or it could be large in a more expressive typeface for the white color but a blue drop shadow or it could be on an angle or uppercase with a rounded box around it. Right? On the left you have HTML that simply declare something as a headline. On the right you see how that is visually expressed. Now there's an interesting question here, which one is more important, HTML or CSS? If we go back to our list and we think about that HTML is like a noun and CSS is like an adjective, then you can ask yourself, well in language, are nouns or adjectives more important. So, let's test this question on a sentence. The sentence is; the young girl ran after the colorful butterfly into the beautiful meadow. If we isolate the adjectives and remove them, the sentence reads The Girl ran after the butterfly into the meadow it's a little less descriptive but we can still understand the sentence. If we isolate the nouns and take them out, we are left with the young ran after the colorful into the beautiful. It's fairly nonsensical at this point, right? So, to answer the question for HTML and CSS, you can say that HTML works without the CSS, while the CSS is completely dependent on HTML and it does nothing really on its own. So, HTML always comes first and then the way it is presented visually, comes second. Which makes sense because visually impaired people also access the web using screen readers and screen readers mostly access the information that HTML provides and disregard the CSS. You can even make this argument into a larger point. If CSS is about presentation, then it's about visual design and obviously visual design is really important. I'm a designer and I understand how much value graphic design adds but without contents, there's not much to design with. So, good content must always come first. Now, what about JavaScript? How does that fit into everything? Let's go back to our list and make a column for JavaScript. If HTML is about mark-up and CSS is about style than JavaScript is about script that's in the name, or you could say it's about programming. If HTML is about content and CSS about presentation, then JavaScript is about behavior. The question you can ask here is; what happens with it? If we have a noun and an adjective for HTML and CSS, well then, JavaScript maybe acts a little bit like a verb. But maybe the most concise definition what JavaScript actually does in the context of a website is that it changes HTML or CSS after a page has loaded. That's all it ever does. It might add new HTML to the document or it might change the CSS of an element so it looks differently. Let me give you another metaphorical example that I admit it gets a little esoteric, but it's also kind of fun. So, let's say we have a bicycle. In terms of HTML, we have the idea of a bicycle. We don't know what it looks like, we just know there is a bicycle. CSS can make the bicycle into something specific. So here he has a white saddle and a black frame and JavaScript could then say well, let's paint the bicycle red and it changes color, right? Or it could remove the front wheel or it could replace the bicycle completely with something else like a scooter. So, HTML defines the content, CSS provides the visual presentation and JavaScript can change it after the fact. A few more realistic examples might be, when a button is clicked, validate the form. When a mouse hovers over a menu, show the submenu. When the link is clicked, load new content from the server or every 10 seconds, change the background color randomly. Note that the last example is not based on something the user does, but it is still based on an event that happens over time. So, I hope this excursion into metaphor land was helpful and you now have a better understanding why we have three languages and what their jobs are for web design.