Whitespace is another important tool for a designer, which might seem a little strange at first, since we are basically talking about space that is empty, space that is not filled with anything, space, one could naively argue, that is wasted. But the consideration of whitespace reminds me of a quote by the composer Claude Debussy, who said that music is the space between the notes. So one could argue that design really emerges from the space between the design elements. Here are three posters by the pioneering modern typographer Jan Schickholt, whose work is a great example of how whitespace can create drama in a composition and how whitespace helps leading the viewer's eye around the design. Just to clarify, whitespace doesn't have to actually be white. It could be any color, but it is the space that is not used for an image or text or any other design elements. It's the space that lets your design breathe. This is something that beginners often get wrong, especially in web design. And one can even go further and say that early web design had a problem acknowledging the importance of whitespace too. Here's a site from the very early days of the web. Aliweb is said to be the first search engine. It launched in 1994, and it doesn't seem to have changed all that much since. And everything about it just screams 90s web design. The big reason for that dated aesthetic is that everything looks cramped and claustrophobic. Sure, there is a lot of useful information here, mainly text links and headlines and a search box and search controls, but visually it's really overwhelming and not very pleasant to look at. It looks old, and that has a lot to do with missing whitespace. Check out how with just a few moves, we can make this design look and function better. I'm going to use the web inspector of my browser to hack the CSS code to improve the page. By the way, I'll give you a more thorough introduction to CSS next week. Right now, I'll simply add more padding to all table cells in this design. See how much better everything looks right away? That's the magic of using whitespace. Let me also make the search box bigger and give it some more space on the bottom. There, just a handful of changes and a lot of improvement to the design. Now, to be fair, part of the reason why websites from the 90s looked the way they do is that early web design didn't use CSS for the simple reason that it wasn't available yet. It was only created in 96 and wasn't implemented fully into browsers until a few years later. And it's quite difficult to get spacing right with just using HTML alone. But there's another reason why some designers, especially those new to web design, have whitespace issues, even today. It's because they are unaccustomed to designing layouts that scroll. But remember, space is cheap on a website. It's not like print design, where you might not fit all of your content in the allocated space if you use too much whitespace. You might run out of pages in the book you are designing. On the web, in contrast, we can scroll indefinitely so our pages can be as long as they need to be. And we already determined in a previous lesson that scrolling is not something that users are afraid of. It's at the heart of the medium. Let's take a look at a website example that uses whitespace effectively. The homepage of the Berliner Philharmoniker, the symphony orchestra of Berlin, Germany, feels airy and inviting because of a generous amount of whitespace. All the content is presented in a very considered manner. The designers didn't cram all the information into the top. We have to scroll to see most of it. We get a few digestible pieces of information at a time. There's a huge search bar and the calendar of upcoming concerts, then a few banners advertising specific programs, recent stories, and special offers, and news. And even though the footer is on a black background, it feels friendly because of the generous amount of whitespace here. Of course, designers can also play with conventions and create designs where the absence of whitespace doesn't feel like an oversight, but a meaningful confrontation. Take the site for the Stedelijk Museum, a modern art museum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. It's rather unconventional. The type is huge and everything is quite dense. Not much whitespace to be found here. Is this bad design? Well, I'm not entirely sure how usable it is at all times, especially these marquee texts that only scroll on hover. But it also communicates that this museum is rambunctious and surprising and not afraid to do things out of the ordinary. This probably will be reflected in their programming and exhibitions. In fact, their mission states that the museum defies boundaries and takes risks because, quote, the extraordinary happens when you escape your comfort zone. Escaping the comfort zone, that's what happens here on the website too, I think. But as so often, you should know the rules first before you start breaking them. Try making pleasing, usable, and friendly designs, at least at first. And in order to do that, use plenty of whitespace.