In this section, we're going to use non-visual paper prototypes to do our very first user tests. In our last section, we looked at mapping out our content and also mapping out the user's interaction. Our content map acted as a diagram, showing us where all our content was going to go, whereas, our interaction map acted as a flow chart showing us how a user would interact with that content. Both of these maps helped us develop our idea, our structure, our thinking, and our problem-solving might all have changed. So far we've used diagrams in geometric elements, but we've mostly been using words as our tool for helping us develop our ideas and our content. In our next stage, we're going to look at real decisions about our app in real time, and we're going to try and use a real user to test it out. But we're still going to use words, and we're doing that because we're still in a preliminary stage where we don't really have a visual design yet, and words are the easiest way for us to express our ideas. We want to try and simulate an interactive experience with a user. We want to test out our content map and our flowchart of user interaction and see if we were right or not. We're going to do this in two stages. First of all, we're going to develop a paper prototype and then we're going to try and test it on a user. Developing that paper prototype is something that we can do on our own. That's a kind of internal stage. All the work we've done so far in developing our app has been internal. The second stage will be the first time we've taken our app to an external phase to have a user looks at it. So, let's look at how to develop a paper prototype. We've already figured out a lot of things about our app from the diagrams that we've already made. We already have a map of what we think the users experience will be, the diagrams, all of the different decisions that they can make and the places that they can go within our app. For this basic user test, we don't want the user to see the whole of the map and all their options, we want to feed them those options one at a time. We want the user to make decisions one at a time. So, we're going to have to take our map apart and dismantle it into single sheets of paper and have each sheet of paper contain just enough information to get the user to the next stage before they have to make a decision. We're breaking down and slowing down the interactive process, the user's interaction with our app. For my test, I took several sheets of paper all the same size and made each represent a decision the user had to make based on the user interaction chart I'd already developed. We're basically taking something very complex apart in order to examine the individual pieces more slowly, and it's a strategy we've used many times in this course. After my branding screen, the user would get to a screen, where they have to choose whether to login, use their current location, or enter a location. If they chose the login option, I'd give them another piece of paper where they could enter their name, their password, or perhaps login with their Google or Facebook ID. If they wanted to enter their location, I'd hand them a piece of paper where they would be entering their street address, the city and town, perhaps the state and the zip as well. If they chose their current location, there will be nothing to enter because the app would already know what that location was. In all three cases, they'd be taken to the next screen. This will be the map screen that forms the main hub of activity for our entire app. For this simple test, I'd ask the user to choose between the three main options. They could choose to search for a lost pet, or they could choose to post information about a lost pet, or post information about a pet that had been found. If they chose to search for a pet, I'd give them another piece of paper, and here, we'd be pretending that they'd be entering information about the species and breed, name, description or location, if it was different of the pet that they were looking for. Once they'd given me that information, I'd hand them another piece of paper that would be the results of their search. So, they would have a list of three different dogs in this case that fitted the parameters of their search. If the user chose any of those dogs, they could get more information about that particular dog, and since there are three different choices here, but with the same kind of information, I could use that as an option to perhaps try some variations. I could reorder the list for example, to see which one the user might respond to better. One of the great things about making your paper prototype like this is that you can change it or add things very, very quickly. You can even respond to user feedback in real time. So here, I might want to add a button that would take me back to the previous list if I wasn't interested in one of these dogs, for instance. Let's go back to our main screen and follow another path. If the user chose to post information about a lost animal, I'd hand them this piece of paper with a number of different pieces of information for them to enter. I could simulate the process by asking the user to answer each of these sections one by one before they could post that information, and this whole process would be verbal and would be pretend. We're really trying to simulate the back and forth between the user and the app. Our third option from the main map screen, we'll be posting information about an animal that we'd found, and this would follow a similar pattern to the series of interactions we had when we were posting about a lost animal. An easy way to get started making your paper prototype is to take your user interaction flowchart and to just map that out on single sheets of paper. You can make one sheet for each stage or decision, and you can actually lay those sheets out in exactly the same structure that you've already mapped out for your user a flowchart. I like to do this in a big space where I can move everything around and rearrange it as I want to. But you can also do it in a smaller space with posted notes. It's helpful to be able to move things around very easily, and it's also helpful to do this in a very rough and ready visual way. It helps make you less attached to each individual piece of paper. So you can change things and alter things, or rearrange things without worrying about losing things or screwing things up. The other huge benefit of working in this loose style and just using words is that design doesn't get in the way of the content. There's no distractions for you, but more importantly, there's no distractions when you come to test this out on a user. You're trying to focus their attention on decision-making with limited information about the content. You don't want design to be a distraction at this point. This is a very simple and preliminary form of user testing, and we have to structure our information for that test in a sympathetic way. So, we can have a lot of information going on on each of these pages. You might want to limit the choices to maybe three things. You might also find that you need to make extra stages in the decision-making process when you're going to try this out with a real person. Again, one of the benefits of working in this rough and ready way is that it's very, very fast for you to make changes or expansions to your map, and we're still primarily, just working with language here. I drew an image on my branding screen, but apart from that, the only graphic elements in the other screens are a few boxes to indicate hierarchy and a few dots and lines to separate pieces of content. Any graphic elements should be supporting actors, they shouldn't be taking the lead role. Keeping your communication focused on just text allows the user to imagine any visual form they want to, or imagine no visual form at all. What's important is that you keep the user focused on decision-making. You want to offer them a series of paths to choose from that aren't visually differentiated. So as you make this series of single sheets, allow things to move around. Don't be afraid if things change from your flowchart that you've already made. You can always make different variations for certain screens and try those out. Nothing is fixed at this stage in the process, so you still have the ability to allow things to change. You have the ability to learn things as you're making. Laying things out like this might make you come up with some new ideas or it might make you rethink the structure that you already had. In many ways, you are the first user who's going to test your paper prototype. You're the first one to experience it so you can evaluate your own experience and make changes, and once you've made those revisions, you'll have a set of sheets of paper that you'll be able to take to a user and test your app with a simple paper prototype. You'll be able to get your first user feedback.