Let's take a close look at an example of a clickable prototype. Again, we'll look at the project archive for the CalArts Art School that I've been showing you all along this course sequence. And we'll take a look how this was constructed. But first let me talk about clickable prototypes in general. And this question comes up, that is how realistic does your prototype need to be? Does it need to feel entirely, feel and function entirely like the final website? What I would say to that is, remember that Figma isn't the final medium here. The final medium is the website, and the website is coded with HTML and CSS and JavaScript, and it has all kinds of affordances and possibilities that Figma just doesn't have. They are different things. Figma is for designing and imagining. Figma isn't necessarily behaving like a web browser. And also remember that users are not going to visit your prototype in Figma. They will eventually visit the website you designed in a web browser. So don't worry about making your prototype in Figma absolutely perfect. What your prototype should do is communicate your intent and your ideas. And communicating your intent and ideas to potentially four different audiences. One of these audiences for your prototype is you yourself, the designer. You have to kind of figure out what you want to create by working in this prototyping tool. I guess the reason you're not working with HTML and CSS directly is that that's a lot harder. And to be fair, some people that are really strong at coding might jump straight away to the coding languages. But for most of us, an intermediate step of using a design tool like Figma is just easier to develop visual ideas. The other audience for your prototype is your client. You want to present your clickable prototype to a client so that they know what to expect when the website is finally coded. Usually the client signs off on a clickable prototype and then a site goes into production. So a developer will write the code. And what usually happens is that you present your prototype to the client. So you click around and you can kind of shape the narrative. You know which elements are clickable, which elements aren't. It's generally not a good idea to just send a clickable prototype straight to the client and say, take a look, because they will just get confused because most likely the prototype isn't the final website. So not everything is necessarily working as it will in the final website. Another audience is the developer, the coder, the person who will write the CSS and HTML and JavaScript to make this an actual website. Now, here you should try to communicate closely with the developer to see what they need from you, how much detail you need to put into your prototype. And that is kind of a case by case basis. And then lastly, your prototype could be used for actual user testing. And here it gets a little bit more complicated. Sometimes user testing works in a way where users are shown a prototype and then the person running the user testing asks them what they would click on next. So the control stays with the person running the testing. But then sometimes users are given the prototype themselves and they can click around themselves. And in that case, it would be helpful to have the prototype built out as much as possible. So all of the links that seem clickable are actually clickable. So that is a bit of an edge case where a prototype needs to feel a lot closer to the actual website. But again, in most cases, users aren't going to see your website in Figma. So don't get hung up trying to make everything work exactly as you imagine it to be in the final website. As long as your prototype communicates what you want to happen, even if it needs some additional explanations, then you should be fine.