In this section we're going
to focus on Visual Direction. We've been looking at wireframes for
quite a long time and now we're going to concentrate
on Visual Development. We're going to start thinking about what
the user interface actually looks like. For a short time we'll be putting
more emphasis on UI than UX. But of course,
they always remain connected. Let's look at what we've figured
out about our app already. We've looked at our audience and
defined an ideal user. We've developed our content
with the content map. We've got a more finished structure
from our wireframe map and we started to look at some
initial visual research. We've basically got a framework and
structure for our app that's pretty
functional unresolved. We have a skeleton, or a foundation, and
now we need to build on top of that. And that involves developing
the visual side of our user interface. We're going to look at this quite quickly,
and we're going to do it in three steps. We're going to look at the look and feel
or the initial visual direction that we touched on before, but
specifically for this app. We're going to take those initial designs
and try and refine them a little bit to create a more developed and
specific user interface design. And then we'll work on refining that
even more to create our final UI design. If you need a refresher course
about visual design and graphic design and the way it
works with user interface design, you could revisit Visual Elements
of UI Design, our first course. And this will give you a more expanded
process then we're going to look at here. So the first thing that we're going
to do in creating a visual look and feel is to try and meet these goals. You want to establish a mood, a tone, and
visual experience that's appropriate for our audience, but also for
the kind of content of our app. So it's going to be different depending on
what your app is and who your audience is. Right now, we have wireframe designs for
all of our screens, so our interface elements are organized and arranged but that quite generic and
visually undeveloped. We want to give them a mood and
a character and an attitude that works for our app but we don't want to
loose the functionality as well. Let's take one of our
wireframe screens and develop it in two different directions for
two different potential audiences. We'll use two very simple directions,
fun and serious. The goal of the fun direction is to
be youthful, positive, cartoonish, hip, casual. While the serious version wants to feel
utilitarian, practical, believable, authoritative. As we've looked at before, having a set of adjectives to describe
your visual goals can be really useful. We can express those
adjectives through color, a fairly serious and
dull brown versus a vibrant and fun green. With just one move, we've already created visual
difference between our two directions. We could do the same thing
with typography as well. On the fun side, we might use novelty or
display typefaces with the exuberant form. They could be curvy, lively,
bouncy, and generally fun. Our typography for our serious side might
be much more austere, more regular, more consistent, more about
functionality than about playfulness. And we can use that typographic
direction to create a logo type for our app, or to create a bug,
button or icon, in this case LP for Lost Pet, in
the shape of a tag that a pet might wear. We could do the same
with our fun typography. But here the forms are much
more energetic and friendly. I'm also using naming and
language to reinforce the mood. Getpet is much more
friendly than lost pet. So we have a graphic pallet right
now of words, typography and color. But we're also going to need imagery. Our serious images could be very
photographic, very realistic. They might represent real individual pets. Ones that are lost, or perhaps ones
that have been found through our app. But the images feel functional,
and pragmatic, and realistic. In opposition to that our fun direction
might use illustration much more. With illustrations,
we can make the animals seem happy and positive and upbeat. And we can do the same for
the owners as well. Our illustrations don't have
to exist in rectangles. They can be free floating and
energetic and we could easily use them
to create icons or buttons. So now I have a mood board for
each of my different directions, each of my different moods, and
they look and feel pretty different. So now I've collected all of this
information, even though I haven't actually made a design yet, I can start
to decide which direction is going to be the best one for my app, which direction
I want to apply to my wireframes.