In this section, we're going to further
refine our user interface design. As well as finessing the design,
we'll be looking at continuity and making sure everything works the same
across different screens and looking at state changes for
some of our interface elements. Let's look at where we are in
our UI development process. We created a general direction,
we developed that visual direction and now we're going to finalize it and
finesse it. Our goal here is to make
a series of refined and fully resolved screens that we
can use in our digital prototype. So let's look at the three sample
screens that I was designing earlier. We left them in a state where
they were fairly resolved but could probably do with
another round of refinement. Our branding on our first
screen seems much too large for the scale of the screen, so
we could reduce that down. We might choose a slightly
different color pallet as well. So we're really looking at
small design moves here. Across all areas of our interface design. So try and consider all the small details. It might be of the exact
curvature of a rounded corner, or how much contrast there is
between a floating window and a background, or the exact color or
position of a button. And remember, you’re striking a balance
between how you use design to indicate functionality within
the interface and how you create an idiosyncratic identity, a look and
feel that's specific to your app. Think about how your systems
work across different screens. For instance, I might need one color
system in my maps to show lost and found, but another color system
to reinforce my branding and a third one to show interactive
elements or buttons. And those kind of decisions might be
based purely around functionality. But I'm also trying to create
an aesthetic for my app as well. If I shift the color palette in my map,
for example, it can have quite a dramatic
effect on how my whole app feels. But that difference in contrast can
also have an effect on functionality. I might be able to see my buttons more
clearly with the different background or a different foreground color. Some moves might create
quite a large visual shift. But you should also look
at the smaller elements, the details of every
aspect of your interface. On my last screen, for instance,
I might look at the relationship between the icons that I have and
the labels that I have. I've got a color coding system for
lost and found, I've got an icon system to show
a different kind of animal. And I've got a typographic system for
showing the animal's name. So even with quite a small
aspect of my interface, there's a lot of design decisions to make. As you develop and
refine your user interface, it's worth going back
to your wire frame map. If you have screens that are similar or
use a lot of the same elements, you can develop these together. This will help you
maintain consistency and continuity across your screens and
across your app. And if you have elements
appearing on multiple screens, it can help you create a visual system
that's consistent across those screens. In this case, we might want all
of our maps to look the same. And all of our icons and labels on
those maps to also look the same. But because we've got a slightly
different set of information here, we're going to have to come up with
some other icons for other animals. So we're extending and testing our
visual system at the same time. So rather than showing a letter to say
whether an animal is lost or found, I can indicate that with
just a color system, the same that I'm doing
elsewhere in my app. So I'm being consistent. You might find yourself going back and forth between two different screens
in two different areas of your app. And as you're working in different areas,
you might discover things where you have to go back and
tweek some of your earlier designs. It's not just interface elements
that you'll be changing. It might be your typography,
it might be the spacing, it might be how things
sit within a window. And you want to figure out
how to make that consistent. How to have a systematic approach to
your design, because you want all of your screens to feel like they
belong together in the same family. If you have the same element appearing on
more than one screen, make sure that it's consistent, the same scale and the same
place, like your menu items, for instance. You can also check to see if you have
anything that's redundant in your interface. In my screen on the left, I don't need
to have the icon of the animal and the animal's name. And even if you are using stand in art
work, the way that I am with the map. Now might be a good time to find something
that's a little closer to how you really want the art work to look. So I might want my map to look cleaner and
crisper and more graphic. And as with all design, one change can
have a knock-on affect to other elements. If I change my map color, there's knock-on effects because I'm
using it in several different ways. So I have to adjust all
the different states and all the different uses of that element. Your refnement happens on a macro and
micro level. On the micro level,
we might be looking at our icon design. If we look at our icons on
the right-hand page, for instance, the cat icon doesn't seem quite right. Even when we shrink it down, it's still
too different from our icon system. It's too complex. Let's enlarge a couple of icons and
take a look at them quickly. We've made them the same size, but
we need more visual continuity than that. The dog is a lot simpler and
a lot flatter, so we could make some small moves to the cat
icon to try and balance them out. Let's create similarity. Let's make the eyes work
in the same way and let's make the ears work
in the same way as well. Now our level of simplicity and
of flatness seems to be quite close, so these icons work better as part of a set. So once they're a set,
any changes I make to one of them, I should make to all of them. So if I want to make them a little
bit larger, for instance, I have to change that to all of the icons. Again we're looking at refinement,
continuity and consistency. We can take that same logic,
not just to our icons, but to the labels sitting beneath them. We can look at the spatial spatial
relationship between the type and the label, as well as the relationship
between the label and the icon itself. We might even want to try out a different
color system to work with our map, but we'd need to do
that on a global level. So as you can see with this example,
our process of refinement is incremental. It involves a lot of small steps. And even though we're focusing on very
small details in each individual screen, we're also going to have to start to think
about how the screens work together. An easy way to do that is to
take your finished designs and drop them into your wire frame map. This stage of the process feels a little
bit like completing a paint by numbers picture. You're going from a framework that's
black and white and quite generic, to something that is much more
colorful and visually compelling. If you have the time,
you can make a finished design screen for every screen in your wireframe and this
would men that when you came to make your digital prototype, it's really going
to feel just like your finished app