So, we've started to develop and also focus our idea. Even at this early stage, it's worth us thinking about our audience and our rationale for our app because that might have some overarching consequences for what our app does and how our app works. So, all four of our questions have an effect on one another. Right now, we're going to focus on audience and rationale; we're going to ask who benefits from my app. In order to figure that out, we have to figure out who's the audience for my app. And it's no good saying, everybody. Even if everybody does end up using your app, it's going to start out from an initial hardcore user group, so it's worth defining what your target audience or your target user group is. So, I'm going to take a stab at describing some of the traits I think my users might have. I think they definitely be the people who wanted to waste less food. That could be a few reasons for this, but I think the most important reason is probably going to be that there are also people who want to save money. There's an unexpected and creative aspect to making these new recipes, so I think my user base could also be people that are inventive. If I think about some of the functions in my app, my audience might also be people who want to shop accurately for just the things they need. Again, we're going to go from the general to the more specific. So, if I look at people who want to waste less, I could describe them in more detailed terms as being eco-conscious being into recycling, perhaps being proactive in their lifestyle. The people who want to save money could be described as being thrifty, perhaps they're on a budget, or perhaps they're living in a communal or shared living situation. For the inventive or creative part, I could describe my target users as being people who like to cook. They probably have a wide taste and they might be quite adventurous since they don't know what they're going to get. The people who want to shop accurately for missing the ingredients could be wanting to do that because they want to save space in their kitchen or save time going to the supermarket, or more likely, save money. So now, I've got four much more detailed areas that describe some of my users. I could divide these into categories, or if you like, into personality traits to try and define the user even more closely. So, the first set feel like they're much more political considerations, whereas the second set, feels like they're much more financial, they're all to do with budget. The third set could loosely be described as being social to do with the activities around cooking and eating, whereas the fourth set feels very pragmatic, it feels like it's dealing with issues that are very functional. So, we've got a little bit more specific in terms of our descriptions, and we've also started to categorize how those descriptions work. We could take that a stage further and we can think about how we could use these directions and these traits to actually invent some mythical users. We could invent profiles of what we think typical or ideal users would be, and much as our one-line description summed up accurately our app, these one-line user profiles might accurately describe who's using our app. They can be useful in terms of explaining our ideas to other people, but they can also be really useful in terms of role-playing especially when it comes to testing. If we have a specific description of somebody using our app, it somehow makes it feel more real. It's useful to have this one person stand in for a whole section of users. We're creating an archetype or stereotype that everybody can understand. So let's invent a user profile for my app. My first user is called James, and he's from San Diego. I'm going to make him be young, 22 years old. I'm going to say that he's a student as well. Let's say he's studying economics. He lives in a shared house with some of his other fellow students. He's pretty active. He likes hiking, and he's really into CrossFit. His active lifestyles reflected in that he's a vegetarian. So, why is James a good user for my app? Well, he fits many of my categories. He lives in a shared house, he's 22 years old and a student so he probably doesn't have much money. He's got a health-conscious lifestyle as well. He's a vegetarian and an economics student, so I think some of our politics might line up too. He's a good match for all four of our categories. Let's invent another sample user, who also fits into our four categories, but it's very different from James. Here's Tracy from New York. She's a 35-year-old mother. She's a freelance editor and she lives in a third-floor apartment. Her hobbies include cycling and fencing. When she has free time, she likes to host dinner parties. She might seem very different from James, but there's also some similarities. They're both quite active, they're both quite social, and they both might be on a budget as well. I can imagine them both using my app but in very different ways. Their emphasis within my four categories isn't going to be the same. Let's try and use the same structure that helped us define our user target group and think about how it might help define the rationale behind why someone would use my app. Our larger descriptions of the personality traits of our user will probably stay the same, and so will our categories; political, financial, social, and functional. But let's look at rationale or motivation in our user. Their political motivation might be to make a difference, to be green, whereas the financial motivation would be as simple as saving money to be thrifty. The social motivation might be a little bit more tricky. It might be about being creative, but it might also be about community, discovering, and sharing recipes. The functional motivation is relatively easy; to save time, and to save space. By following this process, we've managed to obtain a much more detailed description of our audience and of our rationale. We've been inventing our users but we've also been inventing our users' concerns, and if we just stick with their interests, we're going to design something that is entirely user-centric in its design. That's just one part of the equation that we have to consider as UI/UX designers. We also have to consider our own knowledge as designers and how we're going to create design centered design. But there's a third aspect that we don't always think about, and that's about the client. They're also going to have a set of goals and a set of intentions that we're going to have to figure out how to deal with.