All right. It's time to talk about outline of scope. We'll go through each of your projects again. As a reminder, remind us what you're doing and then let's talk about the requirements for content and functionality that are necessary for your website. Yeah. My project is an upscale Italian food catering service for businesses and offices in suburban Santa Clarita. Your content requirements that you came up with? For my content requirements, which would be text images and videos that the user will need or will be looking for are the food menu that showcases the pasta, appetizers. And the drinks. And drinks. Images of past catered events, copy or text that stresses that the delivery service is only for the Santa Clarita area, an about us page, a section about testimonials and reviews of the service, a contact and information page, and also the frequently asked question. Yeah and for your functionality requirements? What are those to begin with? So, functionality requirements are parts of the system of the website that will help the user accomplish tasks. Whereas, the content requirement is more of communicating like what it says. Static information? Yeah, static information. So, what do you got for functionality? So, for functionality, I decided to include a live chat feature for customers to get help right away and to be able to customize the catering order. So, a function that will indicate date and time of delivery and allow the user to indicate the amount of people and also to pick options for the salad, main courses, and drinks, and indicate the ratio of how much they want for each order. So, first you need to say, well I've 20 people that come to this party, then I want to say, maybe two main courses. What are some main courses that you offer? Do you remember? So, all the main courses are pastas, so it'll be three pasta options that they can choose from and they can just scale the amount that they want. So let's say, I want all three, but I want 30 percent of this one and 20 percent of that one, Fifty percent of the last one? Exactly. Yeah. That's. Yeah. That's important for when you plan an event because you might not want equal. You don't want a 100 percent Marinera. That's true, but you also don't want, if you don't want equal amounts. Yeah. Maybe there's only few vegetarian. So, the vegetarian option is only 10 percent of your order. Yeah. Also, for placing the order, a place that you can put in contact information, delivery information, which is address, and of course, make the payment, and have order confirmation. But for functionality, I also feel it's important that the user should be able to make changes or cancel the catering service after the orders are in place in case it gets canceled, or more people are coming or less people are coming. They might want to go back in and adjust for that. To do that, I also thought that they should be able to create an account to see all the orders that they placed. They have to authenticate themselves. Yeah. To have that security of their information. Yeah. Also be able to login, just to have the security, if you have, for their profile and account, and also their card. So, one thing to do at this point is to look back at your strategy. I mean, most of these requirements come from the strategy anyway. I think that's something to stress again for the Coursera students, is to use this process to your advantage. There's a reason why we wrote down our user needs and client needs and the reason is that they will inform our content requirement, our functionality requirements. I think I see that often with students or even working on real projects where you do your strategy and then you forget about it. Then you're kind of figuring out your content functionality requirements without remembering and going back to your strategy. So, having your strategy printed out next to you when you're working on this, is obviously helpful and referring back to it. So, let's go through this list real quick and see each of your user needs and client needs how you answered them by- if possible answered them by having a content requirement or functionality requirement. So, the first one here is find out if the restaurant delivers to the area. How are you doing that? Yeah, I had both of content requirement for that. I would have text that would say that they only deliver to Santa Clarita. But also made it a function in the catering order that they would have to put in their address and it will calculate if they could deliver it to their area. Or you will get an error message. Yeah, or you get an error message if it doesn't go through. Yeah. Cool. Ordering online, is a user need, well that's, yeah, you customization and all that stuff Yeah, it's a functionality requirement. Customizing the catering for vendors kind of the same thing, it's a functionality requirement that you've listed. Also scheduling for orders is also a functionality requirement. Part of the customization process. Talk about estimating the price of an event, how are you doing that? So, for estimating the price of the event, I remember, we went over some ideas and we landed on the idea of having a fixed rate per guest. So, you would indicate how many people are coming and it would just be like $25 a person and the amount that it would cost, which is depend on how many people show up or how many you're ordering for, instead of buy item or buy menu item. So, in a way you simplified your business operations, in a way and this is possible, you can do that because you are basically the client. If you're working for quote unquote, "a real project with a real client", then they might have constraints where that is impossible to make it so simple, $25 a person because you then you might have to have a much more complex system, like caviar is more expensive- Yeah. - shrimps and maybe the chicken is cheaper, et cetera, but you made it kind of a flat price and dealt with it, which is fine. I think, works into your advantage. Because one could imagine the functionality requirement of a cost estimation calculator. That could be a functionality requirement, which you don't need if you make your idea in a way, or your pricing scheme really simple. Going on then, see past order history to plan for future events. That was a functionality requirement, in creating an account to hold that information for the user. Being able to see those past orders, and then contacting someone with questions. That's also a functionality requirement I put it, I decided to use a live chat feature, so that you get the response right away but it's also a content requirement, and then I have a Contact page and also a Frequently asked questions page. Right. So, it's both- Yeah. -content and then functionality requirement, that's nice because it's such a high stakes or the stakes are higher, let's say you're planning an office party for tons of people. So, it'd be nice to chat with someone if you have questions. So, I guess you don't have to deal with the business operations that there actually has to be a human being on the other hand or chatbot I don't know maybe just a chatbot. But it seems to make a lot of sense for your particular needs. Then quickly, let's review the client needs, to sell food online that will be delivered well I have a lot of that, talked about that, same with the provide a system order customization, but then you have appear professional and sophisticated, communicate reliability, and communicate upscale. How are you doing those three things? Yeah. So, for appearance of professionalism and sophistication, I figured that would all just come through the visual design and language and aesthetic that I would use for it, it kind of doesn't fit into either necessarily the content requirement or the functionality requirement. It's about maybe the colors you choose. It's yeah, about the color palette, the logo or the images. Yes, the typefaces. The typefaces. But for communicating reliability, I chose to add the Testimonial page so that the user can read about past experiences with the client, and also to communicate upscale is again in the visual design. It's an aesthetic choice. Yeah. Possibly, what images do you choose. Yeah. How do you communicate with language. So, it straddles a little bit the content requirements but it's not like a very obvious one with some other ones like the reliability that's a nice one, like how do you showcase that you're reliable while you do that by showing the experience from other people. One other what you don't have here and that's fine but you could have is some star rating, right? Or some user comments. and you want to curate them which makes sense. Awesome. Cool, all right Bradley. Cool. Let's talk about yours. Yes. So, again, I'm doing affordable poke for college students in Westwood, open late at night. So, just start by going through my content requirements. Yeah. The user would be looking for the opening times, delivery radius, only the Westwood zip code, only delivering in Westwood, delivery speed like we deliver within the hour, fast delivery, the prices, food menu, images of the menu items, an About Us page, About Poke page, Contact, and like an FAQ. Where you go over like, "You know, is the fish fresh?" Like, questions people might have about poke. Since it might be something that's not familiar. Yeah. Then functionality requirements. Systems that would allow the user to accomplish tasks. So, the user'd be able to choose from a list of pre-made poke bowls. Create or customize poke bowls. So, you have your base, protein, sauce, sides, toppings. Add items to the shopping cart, a Check-out page where you enter your payment info and address, and you can see real-time order delivery. The status of where it is in Westwood. Yeah, which is kind of nice. Here, you'll see a map and you see where your poke is currently, and how much further it has to travel. Right. I think that's important for restaurant definitely. Nice for the users. Something you don't have the Alyson has is an account. Right. Yeah, I don't think it was as important for this, it's just kind of like more of a one time thing possibly, fast order. It's going to be there in an hour and then that's it, you eat and then you move on. Yeah. Whereas as you said, Alyson for you, you might plan it weeks in advance and it changes over time. You might want to refer back to previous orders because you do annual things or something. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Plus there's also, if you were working on a real project this idea of phasing it, so it's like do just the most important stuff now maybe you'll add an account to your website after it's been launched for half a year. Yeah, like you have loyal customers. Yeah, loyal and reliable customers. But it's not the core functionality. Right. Yeah. It's not the most important. the most integral to the project definitely. So, let's go through your user needs and client needs real quick and see if you've hit all the marks here. Finding out if the restaurant delivers to your area, how're you doing that? Yeah, we have a description of delivery radius and also under the FAQ like. Yeah. It's really the zip code, right? So, if you're in that specific zip code. Ordering food online. Yeah, we have the menu and order, yeah. An order system, checkout. That stuff. Finding out if the restaurant is open. Yeah. Again, we have an About Us and About Poke page as well as like an FAQ where you can see hours and stuff because we're only open at night, so. Presumably, you'd also mentioned that on your, straight on the homepage. The homepage would have. Some language. Customizing the order, picking up from favorite bowls, okay? We have that under functionality requirement. Be functional for the inebriated, is that a content requirement or functionality requirement? Probably more functional. Yeah, or-. Definitely. Right, but where is it in the list? Right. I would actually say it's more of a visual design. Like visual. Yeah, and structure like keeping things. Yeah. You could say that not having to create an account is part of that because who wants to think of a password. Yeah. When they can't see straight. Yeah. So, in a way, it's a functionality requirement that wasn't listed, right it was like a negative functionality requirement. Sort of yeah, it's more of just how it's presented visually. The same with the providing a solid mobile experience, right? It's not really an outline of scope concern. Definitely. Then the following the order after it's placed and when you have a real-time status on right after you order, so that's definitely an important part of it. Right. It's taken care of. Quickly, the client needs selling food online obviously that's there providing a system for order customization we have but you want to communicate fast service, affordability, and freshness. How do you do that? Again, those are all like aesthetic choices on the website, how it looks and how it's presented to communicate. Especially, the freshness, right? Yeah. Yeah. The color palette stuff. I guess the fast service that you might need some texts which you have we deliver within the hour. Yeah. Affordability, I assume that is also communicated by just showing the prices. The prices, yeah. The content. Yeah, definitely. Then, explaining what poke is to people who have never eaten it. Yeah, we have an About Poke page. That would be a lateral. Yeah. So, something Alyson that I wanted to mention about yours is that you have a very complicated functionality requirement of the user having to indicate how much of each options that they order to allocate. But something to remember when you're working at the outline of scope is that you don't have to find the answers yet, right? You're just basically indicating the problems and then the needs and the requirements right here, and you can figure out how to exactly do that through some user interface in future steps. So, one doesn't need to yet get hung up on those things. Yeah. We're just more trying to layout the things that we'll need to address later on, yeah. Exactly. Which is in a way liberating, you can just like write down, "Well, I need this system and that system." I don't have to think about how to address that quite yet. We'll tackle that later. Yeah. Okay. Cool. Thank you.