In the previous week, we established the centrality of
the user in our design process. In this video, I want to discuss how
you can use research to help figure out how your users think and behave. Now, with big stakes and big budgets come a lot of fancy
tools to research user behavior. Imagine, for example, the effort of
creating a new checkout flow for Amazon. It is likely that Amazon will invest
significant resources to scientifically study how users interact
with their website. They might employ eye tracking research,
a technique that investigates where the user's eyes spend
the most amount of time and what they look at first on a page. Or they might do A/B testing where
different sets of users will see different versions of a page or a page sequence. After a specific time, one can evaluate which version did
better as measured by a specific metric. Did orders go up for group A or group B? This isn't too different from how medical
trials for a new medicine are conducted. And of course, if a company has tons and
tons of user data, they can analyze it to draw conclusions. Now I think this is all
really fascinating, but these tools are often too expensive or
too complex, or they presuppose having a lot
of data in the first place. They are probably not
available to you right now. As a matter of fact, they are often not
available for most smaller scale projects. But here's the thing, you can still do some lower tech
versions of user research yourself. Here are a few ideas. You can always start by using
yourself as a test subject and monitor your reactions to a website or
app closely. When you get frustrated or
if you love an experience, try to determine exactly why that is. Look at the world critically. You can also ask a friend
to visit a website, give them a task to accomplish,
and look over their shoulder. You may be surprised at what confuses
other people when they navigate a website. This is especially helpful and humbling if the website in
question is one that you designed. Am I speaking from personal experience? Maybe, interview a friend or
family member. Ask, for example,
what features they would love to see for a project you are working on. Or consider creating a questionnaire and
send it to people you know. You can easily use a free tool like
Google Forms to facilitate this. In conclusion, it is helpful to ask actual
users for their opinions and feedback. There are many complex and expensive
ways to go about this, but with a little ingenuity and by tapping your network,
you can get pretty far by yourself.