In this segment, we're going
to look at some ways to make our prototype feel a
little bit more realistic. One thing that
helps with that in Figma at least is creating overlays so you can have a window float over the
top of a background. In this case, I want to
simulate a window popping up over the top of a background with the background
remaining the same. For the screens that
have this pop-up window, I'm going to have to delete
everything in the background. I'm going to use
the same approach we already looked at to create a link from the parrot icon to the parrot page but this time, I'm going to choose to do this as an overlay rather than as a transition and I'm going to choose move-in as the
transition option. I could choose the direction for the overlay along
with the timing. Here I'll choose to move in from the bottom
because I want the parrot details
to appear like they're sliding up from
the bottom of my screen. We can use the preview window to check out how well the
transition is working. I also want the parrot
window to slide out so we'll need to
set that link up too. Here, I'm going to configure it to simply close the overlay. Again, I use the
preview window to check out if the sliding movement
and timing is what I expect. I'm going to connect
the second icon from my map to an
overlay screen. Here, I want the dog icon to
connect to the dog screen. Just like before, I'm
going to make sure it's an overlay and
not a transition. I can tell it's
an overlay screen because the background is transparent and I only see the section of the screen
that will be sliding up. Just like with the
parrot overlay, I need to configure the dog
overlay to close as well. Now, in my preview window, I'm able to click on
both the dog icon and the parrot icon, and I can have both
of those windows slide up and over my
background map and that's a much closer
simulation of how the app is really going
to work when it's finished. I recommend using
any techniques or tricks you can to make
your app feel more real, whether that's in terms of interaction or in terms
of menu movement. The closer you can get to the finished thing without
any programming, the better. We can use the same technique to create sidebar menus as well because the way
these menus move and operate is such a familiar
convention to users. Menus that appear
to function give us a great way to create a
digital prototype that feels more real and
we're going to use the same technique with overlays
that we just looked at. On one art board, I'm going to delete
everything except the menu and then I'm
going to make a link between the menu and the menu icon that's on my
home page, my map page. I'm going to make it
an overlay link so that the menu can float
over the top of the map, and I'm going to have it
slide out to the right so that it feels like the menu is coming out of the menu icon, just like in a real app. Of course, I can preview it
to see if I like it or not. This menu has an X in the upper right to
close the menu so I'll set that up so
that clicking on the X closes the menu
overlay as well. Now, clicking on the X
makes the menu go away and it feels like I have an open and close action
that's quite fluid, one that feels quite real. In this menu, I have search for highlighted in bold
as if it's active. If I want to continue to
simulate this interactivity, I can make an active link. I can draw a transparent box over the area that I
want to be interactive, and then I can connect that
link to my search for screen. I have to locate that
screen within my layout of all my art boards
and as always, I'll select the transition I
want along with the timing. Since the whole screen
is going to change, I'm going to have this
transition be a fast dissolve. Let's go back to preview
the main map screen and verify that the search for
takes me to the search screen. You can see we're starting to create quite a complex
web of connections, and this is why it's
important for you to have all your art boards organized within your
prototyping software. Another thing we
can do to create more of the feeling
of full interactivity is to create fake fields for data entry and it's
quite simple to do this. We just need to create a
series of progressive screens where each screen adds the next completed
data entry field. There's no typing involved
but at least it takes the user through the stages
of filling the form out. As you click on each
successive field, it takes you to
the next art board so that it appears that the
field is being completed. It's like the user is adding
one piece of data at a time. Once I click that
"Get Pet" button, it will take me to
a map that will show me the results
of my search. In this case, it's found my dog. If I click on the blue dog icon, I get details about
the dog and I can choose to either close that
window or claim my pet. If you think back to where
we created a flow chart, we're basically
making a screen for every possible decision
that the user could make. The big difference
is that now we're following these paths
through our content, through our app with very
finished visuals and a very finished user interface so it feels much more real. When we get feedback
from the user now, it should be much more
accurate and informative. As we create this
simulated interactivity for our user it's
getting more complex. We need to create
a lot more screens but as we expand and refine
our user interface design, we're also gaining a
deeper insight into how the user is actually going
to experience the real app.