In this segment, we're going to look
at creating some more complete pathways through our digital prototype. So far we've made a prototype that's
got fairly limited interactions. The user experience is quite brief and
not very complete. To give the user a more fulfilling and
realistic experience of our app, we're going to create some more complete
pathways through our prototype. Because I've organized the artboards
of my prototype in the same way as my wireframe map, I can clearly see
groupings of screens where the user is following a specific path. Where these paths have been described
with text or generic elements before now these paths are clearly
visually visible and delineated. In order to build out my prototype, I should probably take each of these
areas and develop a fixed pathway for the user to advance through the app so
that they experience each of these areas. Of course, we're not going for
full functionality here, we just want the user to travel through
an experience, a sampling of each area. So we're going to need to make
some additional screens, and that begs the question, how many screens
do you have to have in your prototype? As a general guide, I would create
a pathway through each important area or function of your app, there might be some areas that you
don't need to build out at all. But the bottom line is the number
of screens is really going to depend on your app and
how your app works, but also how much time you have and
what stage of the project you're in. If you feel like everything is working and
pretty resolved, you can keep building out your prototype,
but remember, we're still in the prototype phase so
you don't have to build everything. You can keep evaluating and
refining the interactions, you might find yourself adding or
taking away steps within a pathway. It's often useful to time how long
each of those pathways takes the user, it might be much shorter or
much longer than you think. If we go back to the getpet app, you can see that I've actually made a lot
more screens to get my pathways ready. I've got my logon screens at the top,
my home screens just below, screens to search for my lost pet,
screens for posting for a pet that I found, and
screens to post a pet that I've lost. I've color coded these green and red so you can see quite easily that they're
separate sections of the app. So I ended up making a total of
nearly 60 screens to create all of the interactive pathways that I wanted
to show through each of these sections. I used the same technique of overlays
that we already looked at and I tried to create pathways that loop back
to the homepage or connect to each other. Because I want to provide a more complete
or contained experience for the user. In the preview window, you can see that
I'm posting about an animal that I found. I made an extra screen where you can
upload an image from your photo album, which of course is faked at this point
because there's only one image to choose from. But it gives the illusion of my app
functioning within the larger operating system. In addition to the snake photo, I can add textual information about the
animal that I found one line at a time. And even though the keyboard is inactive,
I'm going to make the user click through each of the text fields one at a time,
because I want them to feel as if they're actually entering information and
going through that process. As much as anything, I'm trying to
simulate the timing of the experience. Once all of the information has been
entered, the user can post the animal that they found and then they'll be
able to see it on their main map. This conveniently takes us back to our
homepage, so we followed a complete circuit or loop with the one pathway
of posting about a found animal. Also on the map, I can click on the green
snake, the animal that I found, and I can see the information
that I've entered. This gives the user the feeling that
the entries actually worked and the data has been posted. Let's look at another pathway, let's look at what happens if we
want to post for a lost animal. It's pretty much the same process, I can
upload a photo from my photo album and I can enter all the information that
I have about the pet that I've lost. The categories for the lost pet
are slightly different from the found pet, the most important thing is that
I can enter a name for my pet. I can continue by entering all
the details for my lost pet and post. Now when my pet shows up
on the landing page map, the icon will be labeled with my
pet's name, in this case Libby. Having some visual confirmation
like this of the actions that I've taken as a user can
really help the app feel real. So now I've built out a pathway for
almost all of my main menu options. The one that I've left to last is profile,
because I feel that's a little bit less important
and probably a fairly standard screen. Next, I might consider how
these pathways are organized. Do they follow each other sequentially so that the user has to go through them in
a specific order or do I allow the user to choose which pathway they want
in whichever order they choose?