Let's dig a little deeper into HTML and learn some basics. As you know, this course sequence isn't really about coding per se. But on our adventure into code land here this week, I want to teach you a few basics just to get you started, and potentially, to get you excited and maybe even to show you that it isn't all that difficult. So, HTML obviously stands for Hyper Text Markup Language. You don't actually need any special software to create them. A simple text editor is all you need. Because, these are simple text files that have a bunch of code in them. The structure of this code turns out to be quite simple. Here's an example of a fully functioning HTML file. You can see that there are a bunch of tags that are displayed here in red. If I save this code into a file and then loaded that in my browser, I would see something like this. You can see that the text welcome, that was marked up with an H1 tag, which defines a first-level headline is displayed a little bigger and the word fun, which was marked up with the strong tag, is displayed bold. The text, "My first sight," that was included in the title tag isn't displayed on the page itself. It's displayed in the tab because it's the title of the document. So, and it's hard, HTML is just a series of tags that tell the browser what to do, that tell the browser what kind of content it should be expecting. Is this a headline? Is this a paragraph? Is this an image? Is this a list? Et cetera. The syntax for each tag is fairly straightforward. Each tag is placed inside of angle brackets. Most tags come in pairs, so that a tag that is opened, like a paragraph tag, should eventually be closed at the end of the paragraph. The closing syntax is simply a forward slash in front of the tag name. Let's talk about tag nesting a little bit more. If we look at our example HTML, you can see that the very first tag called HTML is opened on line one and closed on the very last line of this code. So, all the other tags are nested inside of this root element. You can think of the structure of HTML a little bit like Russian dolls, things are nested inside of each other. So, let's look at this for a second. The HTML tag could be described as the biggest Russian doll that contains all the others tags inside of it. If we open that tag, there are two more inside of it. The head and the body. By the way, the head includes all kinds of information that doesn't end up on the page itself. Some meta information, the page's title, links to CSS files, that kind of stuff. The body includes all the information that is actually being displayed on the page itself. So, let's look inside of the body, there are more tags nested there. Three, one headline and two paragraphs. The last paragraph has another tag listed, which is the strong tag, which usually makes a piece of text into a bold typeface. So, another way you can think of HTML is that it's somewhat of a family tree. The HTML tag is always the main ancestor, and the head and the body tags are children of the HTML tag. Then the tags inside of the body tag are children of the body tag and so on. It's a big family tree. One other thing about the tags is that they can have attributes. Here are two examples, the a tag which creates links to other pages, has an attribute called href. That attribute is used to define the location of the link that should be linked to. Another often used attribute is the class attribute. That is used to give tags a name that can be then used in CSS to format a specific tag. This is something we'll talk about more when we talk about CSS in one of the next videos. But there are some tags even that only have attributes and no closing tag. The image tag for example needs a src attribute and the src attribute tells the browser where to find the image that should be displayed. But that's it, there's no content inside of the tag. So, the image tag just stands on its own and doesn't get a closing tag. So, by now, you probably have realized that tag names are either words, like strong, header, and table, or their abbreviations. So, p stands for paragraph, ul stands for an unordered list, h1 stands for heading level 1. Once you learn some basic tags, you can get started writing HTML code. So, here's a list of about two dozen tags, which are about all you need to create most HTML documents. So, you can see there's a limited amount of tags and that makes HTML really not that difficult to learn. There's more, of course, this is just a quick introduction. But again, you can see it's fairly simple. If you're interested, you should spend a little bit more time digging into it and you'll notice that it can be learned fairly quickly.