So, after covering the basics of HTML, let's now turn our focus to HTML's partner in crime which is CSS, the other big technology that allows us to code Websites. We know that HTML deals with the content and structure of Web contents and the job of CSS is to make that content look good. So, CSS is in charge of the presentation, the visual presentation of content. Maybe we can start with the question of what do we actually need to learn in order to write CSS? I came up with these four questions, these topics that if you know a little bit about them, you're on your way to write CSS. In this video, I will talk about each of them briefly. Again, this isn't a thorough course on how to code CSS, but it gives you a starting point to play around a little bit and to have an understanding of what's involved. So, we'll talk about the CSS syntax, we'll talk about how to select elements that you want to style, we'll talk about formatting options, and we'll talk about where the CSS code that you write is placed in the ends. So, starting with the CSS syntax, the basic anatomy of a CSS rule is like this, you have a selector and within curly brackets, you have all the formatting information that you want to apply to the thing that you selected. So, the first part of the CSS rule answers the question, "What will be styled" and the second part the part within the curly brackets answers the question, "How will it actually look." So, as an example, you could say select all <h1> tags on my page and format them to be 36 pixels and green. The actual CSS of this example would look like this, you have the selector <h1> and then within the curly brackets you have the property value pair on each line. So, we write font-size is 36 pixels and the color is green. Now, if this piece of CSS is included on a page that has HTML that looks like this, just a headline marked up with the <h1> tag, then the CSS is interpreted by the browser and you get a piece of text that is a certain size and is green in color, pretty straightforward. But let's look at this CSS rule in a little bit more detail. What are all the parts that are important here and what are they called? So, the first thing we have is the selector and then we have an opening curly brackets, then we have a property, a colon and a value, and after each property value pair, there's a semicolon. Then you can have as many property value pairs as you want per CSS rule and in the end when the CSS rule is done, there is a closing curly bracket. So, this would represent one single CSS rule, but in a CSS file for a complex Website, you can have hundreds and hundreds of CSS rules and in the file you would just list one after the other. So, here's an example of three CSS rules to first run formatting all <h1>tags, the second one all eight text, the link text and the last one effecting all texts that have the class "important" attached. Speaking of classes, this is a good segue to talk about the second question; how to identify HTML elements to be styled in the first place? In our basic CSS syntax, we already talked about that we first have a selector and then we have the formatting information. So, let's talk about this first one, how do we identify what will be styled. There are actually many kinds of selectors, I will just talk about two main ones in this lecture. We already talked about tag selectors and then there's something called class selectors. Tag selectors, as I've already talked about, are good if you want to select all instances of a particular tag on an HTML page. So, we could say, select all <h1> tags and as you've already seen, we will just write h1 and then within curly brackets, the formatting information and if the CSS information needs an h1 tag, then the h1 tag will be formatted. Here's another example, you could say select all p tags, the paragraph tags and then every single p tag on this particular HTML page, will be formatted with the formatting information that is given. Now, class selectors are a little bit more specific, you can give a name to an HTML tag and then select that name in your CSS. So, you could say select all tags with the class "important", the CSS for that would be a period and then the class name important and now the HTML would look like this; you have a class attribute within the HTML tag that gives a particular name to this tag that then can be used by the CSS. So, class selectors are much more specific than tag selectors. Tag collectors select everything, all instances of a particular tag, class selectors select only the instances where you actually apply the class attribute to a particular tag. Here's another example, the class is called "sub-headline" and the HTML tag in this case, it's an <h2> tag has a class attribute called sub-headline. Onto our third question. Which formatting options are available? Now, that you know how to select something on the page to be styled, the question is, "Well, what can I do with it? What are all the visual options that are available to me?" That's a tricky question to answer in detail because there are so many formatting options available. There are probably several 100 CSS properties that exist but here's a list of about 30. If you knew a great deal about just these 30 formatting options, you would have a pretty good handle on CSS. Now, I'm not going to talk about these in details, some of them might be self explanatory like font family selects the typeface and font size lets you specify the size of the typeface. There are others here that are probably a little bit more obscure like what does float do? What does z-index do? What does overflow do? My suggestion is, if you want to learn more about CSS, google these properties and read up on them a little bit, you'll find a lot of resources online that will help you out. Then lastly, our question about where to put the CSS, you've written all your CSS, well, how does it get attached to the HTML? There are basically two possibilities here. One, you could include the CSS inside of the HTML file, there is an HTML tag called style, that if you add that to your HTML, all the information inside of that tag can be CSS. Usually, people would put that into the head section of the HTML document, everything after the opening style tag is CSS, and then you close the style tag after the CSS. The browser would then use the CSS and apply it. The other option is to use an external style sheet where the CSS information is written into a separate file with the file ending.css. Inside of the HTML file, you would use the link tag to link to the CSS file. So, the HTML file has just one line of extra code and the browser now knows where the CSS information is located and will use that. The advantage of this method is that you can have one style sheet that is shared by all the HTML pages of your entire site. So, if you had another page, you could include a link tag into that page that points to the exact same CSS file and uses the same information. This is usually the more efficient way to write CSS because the shared CSS file makes it possible to change something. Let's say you want to change something in the header or the footer or the navigation, you make one change to your CSS and it automatically applies to all HTML files because they simply point to one CSS file. So, this was a small introduction to CSS. As you can see, it's not terribly complicated and out of these four questions that I covered, question number three is probably the one where you have to spend the most amount of time figuring out what CSS properties exist and what possible values there are per property and as with everything in life, practice makes perfect. So, you'll have to write a lot of CSS to really learn it and understand it and to get good at it.