In this section,
we're going to look at how color and shape can work as formal elements
of your interface design. So let's start out by looking at
color in a little more detail. One of the main ways that color works
is by creating an overall mood. And this can be really useful in that, because again it can set the tone if you
want to be more serious or more fun. You might find a color palette that
makes your app more believable. As human beings,
we generally respond to colors, and we respond to them in a very
subjective and emotive way. So let's start out by doing a few
exercises and looking at how color works. And let's take our
scientific interface and let's take all the color away from it and
start out with just black and white. When everything is just black and white
we often have connotations with that of design being very serious, and that stems
from cultural connotations of black and white printing in newspapers,
early photography. But just by adding a simple color
we can change those connotations. When we put yellow and
black together for instance, we use to seeing that to represent danger. When we see a bright color, like magenta, we think that that something
that's perhaps going to be fun. So you can see how even just changing
one color can create an emotion. If we start to put together a palette
where we've got a range of colors working together in harmony, we could have a cool
palette that might create a very icy or cold feeling. And when we start to change those colors,
we could create other connotations. For me, red, white, and
blue represents England. For other people,
it might represent a different country. We could take a palette that comes out of
nature, for instance, browns or greens. And we can build a palette that
makes us feel maybe calm, or makes us feel a connection to nature. So there are some connotations
that come from the real world and some that are fabricated. We see blue things,
we might think it's a design for a boy and pink is a design for a girl,
but those are just cultural conventions. Color is quite relative in a lot
of ways and quite subjective. So we have to figure out how to
control that and how to try and control that subjectivity a little bit. In order to get it to do what we want it
to do for our interface, in order for us to help create an atmosphere,
and a mood, as well as a function. And in terms of function we can use
color in many different ways and a primary one is to think about how color
works as navigation within our interface. So for instance,
if you have these three buttons and I ask you to pick one, I'm pretty sure
you're going to press the green button, just because it looks like it's active. We're used to thinking that perhaps
green makes it one to be picked, but also it's different
from the other buttons. And we can use color to both
create difference and similarity. So just by changing the other buttons
here, the inactive buttons from gray to a lighter shade of green we build
a different kind of relationship. Now they feel like they have
the possibility to all be pressed and turned to the darker shade of green. And basically, what we're doing here, is
creating a system that has differences and similarities. And that can also work in terms
of association with other things that we've experienced before,
either in interfaces or the real world. We think about green as being go or
being active, and red as being stop or being danger. If we use colors that have
a similar relationship, they can also build a sense
of similar functionality. So here we've got three buttons going from
light to dark with a similar hue to them. And they might feel like they do the same
thing but to maybe a different extent. Whereas if we have three different hues,
we feel like that these three different buttons are going to have
three different functions. We can use color in numerous ways. We could use it to denote
something being active. Here just the green that's different
from the blues suggests that something has been turned on,
or is an active element. And we can take that same idea and
take the green button and turn it into a red button to
suggest it being inactive. As well as signifying an event or activity
color also works as part of a system, here for instance we have one
of three things selected. If you were to click on a blue button now, would it turn to red and
would the red turn to blue? As well as showing us what's active,
color can also show us what's inactive or passive. Here, the element is different,
has a more muted color so we know that it's the thing that is
actually not working rather than working. You could also think about how color
can be used to show progression. In this case, we've got three possible
stages, and it feels like we're two-thirds of the way to completion because we have
two out of a possible three areas lit. We could also look at how color can
show absolutely different states but within the same space. So one button, one space, can take on different colors
to tell us different things. So here, for instance,
this button is grey. It's passive, or inactive, which means
the user hasn't interacted with it at all. But once the user goes
to interact with it, the button becomes active,
not activated, but active. So this could be in a touch state or when
a mouse is hovering over a button, for instance. And once it's actually been pressed,
or clicked, or touched, then it becomes activated. So the same button is telling
the user three different things just by changing its color. So now let's look a little
bit at shapes and how we use shapes in
user interface design. We primarily use shapes in two different
ways in user interface design. One is interface elements,
the buttons that you click on, the areas of navigation
that you need to go. And the other is design elements,
in other words, shapes that are mixed up with
images that are more look and feel. Our interface elements
is primarily functional. So we're talking about shapes that
are worth as part of a system. But we also often geometric simple to
understand easy for the user to access. When we use shapes designers elements
they are often less systematic much more emotive and
sometimes more ephemeral. They're much more about the look and feel of the interface than they are about
the functionality of the interface. And in this way, they often
contribute to that look and feel, and not to the navigation itself. In many ways, they could be
viewed as non-essential elements. But my argument would be that while
they're no an essential part of the navigation, they are essential
in terms of creating a mood, creating a sense of individuality and creating a graphic interface otherwise
all interfaces look the same. Picking a certain kind of shape can have
a big effect on the interface, whether it's a diagonal, or a square, or a circle,
for instance - just as a basic form might make a difference between
having a lot of direction, versus a lot of stasis,
versus feeling very organic. We use shapes for our interface elements
because of their functionality, and it's a certain kind
of shape that we use. Normally ones that are geometric
that a simple, that a systematic so that they can be fast to understand and
they can make the system that's fast for the user to visually learn and
to interact with. We're off to new shapes and motifs that we're familiar with
as buttons in the real world. But the key thing here is that
they have relationship to what is pressing the button on the active area. So whether that's the cursor of the mouse
or whether it's the finger, we're building a system that relates to the user
and how they interact with the content. But we're also making
a system that's flexible, where we could label these buttons
with anything that we wanted to.