Hello, and welcome to the course Web Design, Strategy, and Information Architecture. My name is Roman Jaster. I'm a web designer, web developer, and instructor in the graphic design program at the California Institute of the Arts. This is the third course in the UI UX specialization on Coursera, and the first half of what I designed as a two-course sequence capping off this specialization. I hope that many of you took the preceding two courses with Michael Worthington and that you are ready for more. While the UX concepts that I'm covering in my courses will translate to many kinds of interactive media like apps, digital kiosks, or games, our primary focus will be on designing contemporary responsive websites. You will explore and practice every phase of the UX design process through lessons, exercises, and by completing a large-scale project in which you are developing a comprehensive plan for a complex website. By the end, you will have created an impressive and comprehensive portfolio piece that showcases your UX design skills. This first course you're about to start is focused on the early UX challenges. We will talk about research, planning, setting goals, understanding the user, creating personas, establishing requirements, and structuring content. And in the next course, Web Design, Wireframes to Prototypes, you'll give your website a compelling look and feel when developing wireframes, visual mock-ups, and a clickable prototype. To guide your learning process, you will be able to peek over the shoulders of two students, Allison and Bradley, who will receive the same project brief as you. You'll be able to hear them explain how they tackled each project phase, and you'll learn from their insights. Lastly, a little bit about me. I've been working as a web designer and web developer for almost 25 years. I'm the co-founder of the design studio, Ye Brigade, and we work on a lot of websites. I also teach web design classes here at CalArts, where I got my own design education. Fun fact, Michael Worthington was my teacher in the mid-2000s. A lot has changed in web design since I created my first website way back in 1999. What hasn't changed is that the web is an exciting and challenging medium for designers. I'm so happy that you are interested in learning more about UX design and the web, and I hope that you will have a rewarding and fun learning experience.