In the last lesson, we established that you can
simply have a discussion with your client in order to
uncover the client's needs. In order to understand
your user's needs, however, you must
determine who they are. Who are the people that
will come to your website? You have to define
your target audience. In UX speak, this is also called
user segmentation, and there are different ways to categorize users into
separate groups. I will introduce four
methods in this video. We will discuss
segmentation by roles, demographics, psychographics,
and experience. When you define your
target audience by roles, you are isolating
specific groups of people that share similar goals. On a jobs posting
site, for example, one user role would surely
be that of the job seeker, and these people
who are looking for jobs share specific user
needs that must be addressed. For example, they probably
need a search function with an advanced set of
filters to find jobs based on their skill
sets and interests. Then there would be a whole
other group of people, the job listers, who have
their own unique needs. They, for instance, will need an interface that allows
for adding job listings to the sites and maybe
an inbox feature to receive applications. Or think about any social
media website like Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, or TikTok. There's a big difference in user needs between
those who have already signed up and those who don't have
an account yet. For a university
website, let's say, you will have a
natural segmentation of users into the
roles of parents, students, and faculty. Another way of defining your
target audience is to look at basic statistical
data such as gender, age, ethnicity, education,
marital status, income, location, and
spoken languages. These are called demographics. Depending on the specific
projects you're working on, some of these
demographic properties can be more important
than others. Gender might often
not matter that much unless you're working
on a fashion site, let's say, or a dating site. On such sites, you might want to give users
options to search for products or
potential love interests by gender. Two more examples. A site for a barbershop will probably draw a
mostly male audience. A site for a romance author, on the other hand, will likely be visited
mostly by women. As a side note, I know this for sure because I'm married
to a romance author. Age would probably be an
important distinction if you're designing a
site for a preschool. You'd probably be
targeting parents between the ages of 25 and 45. If your site sells hearing aids, chances are that you will have a sizable audience
of older folks. Note that user segmentation will always involve
generalizations. With the preschool example, it's not impossible to have very young parents with
preschool age kids. Let's say as young as 20. Senior citizens too might take
care of young children if you think of grandparents who are the guardians of
their grandchildren. There are, of course, some young people who
need hearing aids, men who are into romance novels, and women who get buzz
cuts at the barbershop. Edge cases and exceptions
can always be found. But still, there is value
in figuring out which user groups represent the vast
majority of your audience. Let's look at what a demographic
profile could look like. Your project could
target middle-aged, married females of
South Asian descent who are well educated, with a middle class
family income, living in an urban
metropolis in the US, and who speak some Hindi. Or an entirely different
target audience for a different website
would be this one, white teenage boys who dropped out of high
school have limited financial means and live in a rural environment in
the American Midwest. I'm sure it's not a big stretch to imagine that the
decisions you make later on in the process such as what content and
features to include, what tone to use
in your writing, and what visual
identity to design will be quite different based
on these two audiences. While demographics are about objective and measurable facts, there is another way
of segmenting users which addresses personal
values and interests. These are called psychographics. Think about people's
personalities, attitudes, lifestyles,
and hobbies. Let's look at examples of two specific
psychographic profiles. Let's say the first
group includes people who are
politically liberal, vegetarian,
environmentally conscious, and politically active. They are likely to keep a
flock of backyard chickens and they are very interested
in do-it-yourself projects. Another group seems to
be quite the opposite. They are politically
conservative, drive gas guzzling trucks, and they own guns for hunting, but this group
also tends to keep chickens and they are interested in
do-it-yourself projects. I have actually worked on a
website that counts both of these possible user
groups as different as they might seem as part
of their target audience. I'm talking about
the blog Root Simple written by Kelly Coyne
and Eric Knutzen, who provide their readers
with instructions for DIY homestead projects like
building chicken coops, baking breads, and
growing vegetables. One thing to point out is that while demographics
influence psychographics, they do not predefine them. You will almost certainly find more vegetarian liberals
in urban areas on the West Coast of the
United States and more gun toting conservatives
in rural areas, but it's also not hard to find steadfast conservatives
in large cities like San Francisco and
some flaming liberals in places like rural Texas. Again, demographics
influence psychographics. They do not predefine them. Lastly, let's talk about
segmenting your users by their level of experience with your site's subject matter. Let's say you're working
on a site that will display financial information
about the stock market. Now, is your target
audience made up of seasoned stock
market pros or are they just starting out to
learn about investing? In other words, is your
site for experts or newbies or do you
target both groups? There is no right or
wrong answer here. The important point is to be clear of who you are
designing the site for. This decision will
affect everything going forwards. Another example. You might design a site that advocates for a political cause. Some of your users will be
die hard supporters already. Others might be persuadable
to become supporters. These two different audiences
will have different needs. Let's again finish with
a real-world example. Here are the target
audiences we defined for the CalArts Project Archive
separated into user roles, demographics, and
psychographics. For user roles, we identified current students, prospective
students, curators, institutions, employers,
faculty, admission counselor, alumni, media, and donors. Note that this list is
in order of importance, with the most important
roles listed first. The demographic segmentation was mostly concentrated
on age and location. We have high school
and college students. Most of them are between
16 and 30 years old. Most of the current
students live close to campus in Santa Clarita
or Los Angeles. For psychographics, CalArts
being an art school, we identified our users as
artsy individualists who don't always like to follow rules and predominantly
visual people. Note that we didn't
address experience since the separation into experts and newbies didn't seem
relevant for this project. Remember, there's no reason
to include things that don't provide you with
meaningful information.