There is a German proverb that translates to paper is patient. You can also translate it as paper will bear anything, meaning just because you write something down doesn't mean it will change a thing. The strategy phase produces a strategy document with lots of writing. The trick is for all your research, all your thinking about users, needs, and goals not to quickly be forgotten. The strategy phase will only make a meaningful difference if you actually base your design decisions on these findings. One tool that helps you keep your user needs front and center throughout the design process is user personas. User personas are short imaginary biographies of people who embody representative members of your target audience. They are fictional characters. You give them a name and even a portrait photo that will be used as stand-ins for a larger user group. This allows you to breathe life into dull statistics, making your research findings more tangible and meaningful. And you are able to refer to your target audience by name when you are trying to decide something. You can ask, I wonder what Mike would think of displaying pop-up ads on every page? Or would Jessica find an advanced search feature helpful or not? Let me show you what actual user personas could look like. I'll again use the CalArts Project Archive as an example. I recommend creating one persona for each of the user roles that you determined. For this example, we'll use the role of current student, more specifically a graduating student who is very engaged and excited to submit their work to be included in the archive. We put the user role in the lower left corner. Now we need a portrait and a name. Hey Luke, looking good. Let me reiterate here that Luke doesn't exist. We made him up, but he represents a very important part of our audience. Adding specifics like name and portrait make the persona more believable. We'll also list the age and profession. Luke is 29 and a Masters of Fine Arts student. Include a small bio. This doesn't have to be extensive. In fact, keeping it short will make other members on your team more likely to read it. Next, come up with a few adjectives to describe the person's personality. Luke is involved, eager, and motivated. Then list their main goals. Look back at your list of user needs for inspiration. Luke's goals are to be seen by galleries, be part of CalArts history, and reference the archive in the future. Also include fears that the user might have. Something that stands in the way of achieving their goals. Luke is worried that the archive might not be kept up by the school in the future. And lastly, it's a nice idea to add a quote that summarizes this persona. That's it. Our persona is complete. Let's look at the other personas we created. We have Joni, who is also a graduating student, but much less excited about the project archive. Cindy, a CEO looking for an entry-level designer. She'll use the project archive to research a potential applicant. Larry, who is part of the faculty. He's excited about the prospect of seeing his students' projects in the archive, but also worried about having to do extra work. River is a prospective student, still in high school, getting their portfolio ready for applying to art school. And finally, Chris, who works at CalArts. He will be adding the student content to the website, and therefore needs an easy and fast backend system. Okay, we've reached the end of the strategy phase. Now it's time to summarize all your findings in a strategy document and share it with a client and everyone on your team. By now, you will have figured out the needs of your users and your clients, and you will have a deeper understanding about your target audience. The strategy document is also a good place to note other research that you have conducted, such as a roundup of similar and inspirational websites and any insights from analytics data, surveys, or interviews. With all of this in place, you'll be in a good position to move on to the next phase, when this strategic information is translated into requirements for content and functionality.