In the projects for this course, you're going to be working with one idea. So, it's worth thinking a little bit about, where do ideas come from? Well, a lot of the times out in the real world, they come from a client or employer. As a UI/UX designer, you aren't always coming up with your own content with your own ideas. But in this case, you're going to act as the client, as the employer, you're going to come up with your own idea for an app. The benefit of this is that it can be whatever you want it to be. You can really use your imagination to come up with a fantastic idea, and your idea, the content, and the concept can be something that really lends itself to visual exploration. It doesn't have to be something that already exists or that conforms to current norms. You're going to have the ability to shape the content of your app and to shape the experience, as well as shaping the idea. You'll really be in control of everything. That sounds great, but you've still got to come up with a good idea. So again, where do good Ideas come from? What makes an app useful or awesome? Well, quite often, good ideas come from good problems. While that sounds like an oxymoron, all it really means is that it's a real problem, that the app has a real reason to exist. But then once you've started from that, you need a good process. You need to be able to take that problem and solve it with your app in a good way. That's going to mean figuring out exactly how you solve the problem. You're going to need to be able to focus on exactly what it is within that problem that you can solve with an app, as well as exactly how you're going to solve it. So, think about a good problem being one that's a real problem, not an invented manufactured problem that nobody really needs a solution too. Because nobody wants another app that they don't really need. You want a problem that's actually a problem, and one that can be solvable by an app, because not every problem can be solved by an app as well. Sometimes it's okay that there's not an app for that, but when you do have a real problem that can be solved by an app, you can tell it success rate by how users respond to it. If you have an app that's very successful, users really love that app. They have an emotional connection to it. So, let's say we come up with a fantastic idea for an app that solves a real problem. It isn't really worth anything unless we can use a process to develop that into something more than just an idea. Ideas are cheap, and the chances are that 50 other people have the same idea as you for an app. What's going to make yours different is your process. You're going to need to do research in order to see what's already out there, and figure out what the best solution could be. You're going to need to do testing, so that you can make sure that it's really solving the problem for your user base. You're going to need to be willing to revise and change your app in its form and ideas as you go through this process of development. Think of a good idea as a car that you're driving. Good process is the roadmap that you're going to follow to get to your destination, and your destination is a fantastic app. But you're not going to get there unless you stay focused and don't wander off the track. So, there are some tools for focus that you can use along the way. You can clearly articulate your ideas on what you want to do so your goals are clear. You can retain that clarity of intention through every aspect of your process, and you can check to see if your app is really doing what you think it is, by testing it with users and getting feedback. So, I'm going to try and give you a process and a methodology over the next four weeks for you to develop an app. But what that app is, is going to be entirely up to you. The blank screen is a blank slate, and you can fill it with anything that you want to, and there's plenty of nonsensical and idiotic stuff out there. Not to mention, a lot of badly designed and dysfunctional apps. For the next four weeks, you're going to work on developing an app of your own, and you'll be the one who's going to define what the problem is as well as what your solution is. You'll have control over all aspects of your app. You'll be able to define what the content is, as well as how your app works. You'll be inventing your app. So this project is imaginary on the one hand but you'll also be treating it in a very real way. You'll be branding and naming your app, mapping out all the different screens and how it works, and testing your app as well. At the end, we'll make a digital prototype of your app. But to start with, you have to figure out what it is? What's the idea? The blank piece of paper is always terrifying when you can do anything, sometimes you do nothing. So let's try and think how you can invent a concept for your app. Let's think of a framework that gives you a few constraints. Let's start out by trying to provide a simple service that users actually desire. So, maybe you can think of something that would improve your own life. Something that you would really like to have as an app. I might be tired of going to the gas station, so, I'd like somebody to come to my house to fill my car full of gas or I might just want 24-hour ice cream. I might have lost a pet one time, and wished that I'd had a service that could help me find my loss pet or perhaps I want to figure out how to use all the groceries left in my kitchen to make a new recipe. You're app could pretty much do anything you want it to, and they can have whatever attitude you want it to as well. It might be very serious and solve a real problem, or it might be fun. It might be fantastic for an invention that doesn't even exist yet. We're going to use this as an exercise for you to learn about UI/UX. So, don't worry about this being real but think of an app that you would want in your life, try and make it be interesting rather than real. Also, if you think of an app that you personally would want in your life, that solves a problem for you as an individual, you're not only going to be the perfect user but you're going to be the expert from the start. But spend a little time thinking about your idea because it's something that we're going to use as the content for this process over the next four weeks. So, while you'll be learning lots of different things in the course, you're going to actually apply that knowledge to the vehicle of your app. You don't have to decide until the end of this week, but start to think about it now.