Do we do the clap? Motivational clap? [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] Let's do it on three. One, two, three. [APPLAUSE]
>> [LAUGH] >> [LAUGH] >> Okay, cool, so today we have a special guest. We have Rob Hope, and we're going to talk
a lot about website trends together. I'll introduce you a little bit and
then maybe you can fill in the blanks. So, I know you're a web designer and
web developer. >> That's correct. >> You live in South Africa. You've been running the showcase website
One Page Love for over a decade. And you just started
a weekly web show called Yo. Do you call it the Youtube show,
or a news magazine. [LAUGH]
>> It's quite interesting because it's very visual and it's condensed and
it is weekly so it is technically a show. But people are referring to
it as a visual newsletter. >> A visual newsletter, okay, I see. [LAUGH] Cool, so you just started that and
it covers news and trends all related to website design,
and I think you're a surfer. [LAUGH]
>> Yes, I am. I've been surfing I think 20 years now,
20 years in Cape Town, South Africa.
>> Cool, very cool. And okay, did I leave anything out? Was that a good description?
>> I mean, I basically have a degree, but I moved into websites just for
the pure love of it. And having freelanced for
years the whole time, I was always intrigued by side
projects and trying to build things. And as soon as I actually got my
fingers dirty, I was thinking, wow, what if I could do this full time and
not work for clients. And you know just through
failing of years, years, years, one page of my sites did the best so
I invested the most in it And the goal was to try and monetize it,
and substitute my Cape Town expenses. And in the last two years, I took the
leap, as they say, and I quit freelance. And now I've just been working on One
Page Love everyday, trying to collect and document beautiful website design. And try and
make the site the best it can be. The more value and time I put in it,
the more people return. And I guess it's just a proven model. If you just invest in it,
people return, and it grows from that.
>> Yeah, actually I'd be interested to hear
a little bit about how it got started. I guess it started 2008, what was the impetus?
>> It's very interesting, because when I was building websites for
clients, I would get the email exchange going,
we get a little quote. I have a gym, and then you would say,
I do have a degree enterprise. And then they would send over half
a page Word documents with content. But the quote was for a six page website. For me it was fascinating because
this was a repeating story. And yeah, so I couldn't find enough
references to people achieving, how do we get away with this
little content in a website? And that's kind of when I started
searching single page websites, one page websites. I couldn't find enough references,
so I thought, you know what? For me to convince this client
that this is a thing, and you can actually achieve telling your
story within a one page website, I'm going to have to
start doing this myself. So using WordPress,
I started collecting links. I used to write a little blog post
that would just be a title and baby screenshots, and that was it. And anything you could find
I would add to the site. You know curation was not a thing. These are rare birds I was finding
on the Internet back in 2008. And you know over time,
you know the trend grew, people started to cotton onto it,
you know. And then they also started convincing
their clients said hey, you know what, we can actually build your portfolio for
wedding photographer in one page. And then they would go to my site and
they would go search wedding. And then up would come one site, you know? And they would mail me, we need more
references, we need more references. So yeah it just encouraged me to keep
collecting, open up submissions and then next thing you know,
it's become my full time job. We've got a lot of traffic everyday. I say we, but it's just me and my website.
>> [LAUGH] >> The most difficult part was to stay motivated working on this. You have to collect the references and
you have to curate. You know, when it got really popular and
there was no roadblock on submissions, it was completely free, and I was
going through 30, 40, 50 links a day. Opening up websites,
going through them and the thing is this is a niche,
this is a one page website. It has no second pages and so on. And I would go through the page and then
you'd find a link to an additional page. And then I would have to reject it. And just by sticking to the niche, people discovered that If I come
down actually going to find a niche. So that´s kind of the history
of One Page Love. >> Great. So actually you´re already leading
to my next question, and I guess we can acknowledge that it is very much about
this phenomenon of a one page website. Which is still I think, and we'll talk
over the course of this interview about trends you see, things that you like,
going back in history maybe a little bit. But to be clear it's all through
the lens of the one pager. Which I think tells us though
also a lot of what's happening in the web design world in general.
>> Exactly. I would, yes?
>> Go ahead, go ahead. >> I would say there's a misconception on exactly what a one-page website is. And people think that-
>> Yeah let's define it. Let's define it
>> Yeah, let's define it. I would say that a one-page website, it's trying to provide the perfect
amount of information. You could read this as minimum for
the user to make a decision. You know, it has no second pages. So when you arrive you are giving
the reader exactly what they wanted to read instantly. You know maybe they discover your
story through a little bit of scrolling and so on. But you're not trying to
tell them two things. You know, hey, I'm Kim. I'm a winning photographer. These are my eight best
photos that I've ever taken. Here are my contact details. Here are the two best
testimonials that I've received summarizing my work ethic and
how quality my work is. There it is, one page. Traditionally and this still is happening. We've got a second page for
testimonials and there we have 20 testimonials diluted and
some of them are good. We're at the stage where
attention spans are zero and people just want to have the best
instantly, load the fastest, instant gratification,
but also the information. That's the thing. Give them the information they
need as fast as possible. So that's basically the trend
of a one-page website. There are rules, you know, sometimes you
can't have a blog for instance, on your business, within a one page website it
just gets too messy and too complicated. So, within the rules made over time,
a blog can be a separate thing, and it can be your domain.com/blog,
but the main story, your content, the meat of it Is all in one
page often long scrolling and often you know no scrolling. This is what we do, here are our
details and here is our best work. Straight away,
you know with the increase of video. People are often putting a video,
there it is. One page, video, contact, details.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. >> So that's a one-page website.
>> Cool. And just to be clear, when you say the rules, you're talking
about the rules that you came up, right? They are not-
>> Yeah. >> [LAUGH] >> It's interesting. There has to be defined rules within the niche.
>> Yeah. >> Because as soon as you start featuring second pages, then people arrive on
the sites, convince them they're clients, and hey, this is how we are going to
present your financial firm. And in the browser and they say, well they've got a second page for services.
So do we quote services? As soon as you stick to that niche, things really come together and
they know exactly what they're getting on arrival when visiting One Page Love.
>> Cool, all right, so maybe let's look at a few things.
I was wondering if you, yeah, let's maybe take it away.
I know we're going to do some screen sharing.
>> So going through just general website trends, and people try and
lock on to trends and they feel that trends are the only way forward.
And what happens with trends as we've
seen with music and haircuts and fashion is, trends repeat.
So I would say just first off as a prefix to the whole trend
analysis is you study a trend, understand why it's trendy, and
then see if you can create and add that flavor, that element.
But overdoing a trend and going all in on a trend is probably not smart because
your site will update it over time. So just using some examples from back in the day.
I've got here texture. >> Mm-hm. >> And texture now used with a beautiful clean typeface over a texture
is just a gorgeous way to create a website now.
But when we go to the original websites and
I'm just going to here, it's so classic having collected over 7000
websites now on one page live. And I'm a bit stricter with
tags than I was back then, but still I can see the first websites and
what date those were featured. So if you look here there's
a lot of grungy textures. >> Yeah. >> The topography is pretty wild. But you can see, it feels dated. And the textures, it's got quite
a lot of cracks to it and so on. Whereas, when we are looking
at more modern texture. It feels a bit smoother. So that's my point on textures and
just with trends. They repeat,
I would say textures are coming back. >> Yeah, when was the last peak texture
you say in terms of time? Like I'd have a guess,
but I'd like you to- >> I would say textures, you know, the first texture of t-shirt was in 2008,
exactly when the site was, you know, and textures were popular. People were trying to
make a website look like you sprayed graffiti on
a brick wall outside. Then another trend would come in, and then you would kind of dilute the texture
a little bit, introduce another trend. And I would say,
textures have come back in the last year. Remember, we went through that
whole phase of flat design. >> Yeah, and I remember I talked a lot about this with
my students at the time and I think- >> Yeah. >> Was it 2010 maybe, '11, around that time. When iOS 7, I believe, came out, and it was this whole like let's
not do skeuomorphs anymore. The calendar does not have a edge
any more and everything is flat. And I felt, we talked about that a lot. I don't know if that was leading it,
but it certainly felt that way, Apple doing this big change
in their operating system. And everyone kind of freaked out and
said let's let's kill all the textures. >> I mean that is commonly known in how much Apple influences design,
it's ripple effect, just massive. People are taking their portfolios and making them almost overly simple
with this whole flat design. That border no fill,
but you know it's good. But then what I've noticed a lot
of really good designers doing, they appreciate what Apple is doing. They obviously saw skeuomorph and
these real sort of buttons. There's a purpose it looks like
you're going to press a button. And the usability was there. So they were like,
almost blending the two. Let's bring it back a touch, and I found that's what the real
top designers were doing. They were embracing the trend like we're
studying, but they didn't go all in. Just talking about a trend
that's completely died is Flash. >> Yeah. >> So I didn't even collect a reference here, because when I was doing
some research out of the 7,000 websites I have indexed here,
57 had flash. And the last time I featured
a website with Flash was 2014.
>> Wow! [LAUGH]
>> So and again, why did Flash die? In 2007, Steve Job announced that
iOS was not going to support Flash. And guess what? They're going to say,
I'm not building with Flash. That's ridiculous, this guy's just
invented the craziest phone ever that I'm going to put in my pocket and
it's going to be the future browser. And no one's going to be able to see,
my contact form or whatever it is within my website. So why would I invest in that anymore? It's incredibly influential Apple, so just going through the trends here
I'm just going to go to another one which I've got here for video backgrounds.
>> Yeah. >> So, I was going through, this was the last page in my archives. So I have 127 sites with video
backgrounds, and I look for the very first one. This is the end of the archive,
and here is another great step. This was from when MySpace relaunched. And this basically had
a very subtle record play. It's no longer online. But it's just incredible how
the leading sites will hire leading designers,
leading designers will try and make launches that will go
viral on announcements. And they were one of the first to
have a subtle video background. It's also, you know, when this video
background was featured it was 2012. And bandwidth isn't where it is now. To have a video loading in
the background back then was pretty, it was actually frowned upon. But you can imagine their servers. You can imagine how optimized that
video was, but is it still a trend? I would say it is.
>> Mm-hm. >> People have gone a little bit far with video in my opinion. Where they're trying to explain the whole
products within the whole header. And whereas some people just creating
like almost an ambiance with the video in the background. Well, maybe some by just opening
up a phone and flipping it, and then clicking open. And then they place another video, so those explainer videos
almost those videos. That come in the sense of,
I would say background videos are slowly fading out and in more favor of a faster
loading blurred background image. With video censored in the header
where someone can just play at well, load at their own pace. I think to be fair, loading of
video in the background on Mobile, it's a little inconsiderate in my opinion.
>> Yeah [LAUGH]. And I guess you could make a responsive
website where that doesn't happen on small sites.
>> Of course, of course. So just going through some more
trends of around about 2011, this is the big one,
and this is the trend. If we were to emphasize the trend for
one page websites, it will be Parallax scrolling, okay? So what Parallax scrolling did
was people would scroll down, and that's almost the essence of
a one page website with a lot of information is it has a lot of text,
so you will scroll down. So people were scrolling down and
just reading image, text, image text, image text. There was no pizazz, there was no flair. And in 2011, a guy named,
let's get his name here. Ian Coyle, Wieden and Kennedy. They launched the first mainstream
Parallax scrolling website, and that was for Nike's Better World campaign. But basically, this is a preview of
how it went, and the shoes almost felt like they were floating.
>> I remember looking at this with my students. The effort of they are just
like what's happening? This is- [LAUGH]
>> The tech was sort of there, but this guy, or this team, was blending
quite a few bits of tech, okay? And I remember when it came out,
it just went so viral. People would just, people in. So what happened was people were like wow, if achieving storytelling
first off while scrolling. Visually absolutely epic. And at the same time they're like, wow,
I didn't actually click anywhere else. Within this website and I actually
interacted and they got conversion. So, there it is, one page website,
telling, visually pleasing, tell me the information I need and we act upon
it and then we click or subscribe or so. So anyway, this is what quick,
in my opinion, one page websites on the map, 2011. And as with anything, it also pushed
people over the edge to see how far they could take Parallax.
>> [LAUGH] >> And yeah, so let me see, I've reviewed here 758 Parallax scrolling websites,
this is back in the day. The newer version are still as
impressive as the next one but for the timing, the NIKE one is
incredibly impressive for the year. The way I'm getting it is
that the trend itself, people would be like we have
to have parallax scrolling. I was getting the brief from clients,
we have to have Parralax. And then you would say,
well, you have an image of a fruit juice and
your stock sitting at a table. So people would cut it out and
theyd would almost overlay something. As you'd start scrolling the background
would move faster than the foreground and it almost felt like you're
really trying to pull this off. That's very unnecessary. And I see it every single day now. It's people out having Parallax,
overdoing it. It's slowing down the experience for
the user, and it flips- >> Yeah, and it's funny, we, in my class, and the course I'm teaching, that's one
of the examples of putting the solution before the problem, right?
>> [INAUDIBLE]. >> That's one of the concepts here, [LAUGH] you want to have Parallax,
it's like why are you doing it? There are reasons to use Parallax,
but it shouldn't be the first thing. Although, one could to
be the devil's advocate. One could say make something very cool and
fresh, and I don't know if Parallax is that in 2018. But sometimes,
having kind of a design driven or a feature driven, I think can fulfill the need to be cool, right?
>> Yes. >> But it's oftentimes get in the way to actually communicate what
you're about, what you're trying to say. >> Yeah, it's like at the end of the day, is the standing page trying
to get that conversion? Are we trying to get
the lead email signup? Are we trying to sell something? From a commerce point of view,
running a campaign and targeting someone through a Facebook ad,
and they arrive on their mobile phone while they're on the tube in London,
and they're just waiting for this heavily resource filled page
to scroll, and they're struggling. That is, where I'm going with that. But if you are trying to show, like here we've got a beautiful,
a bunch of mock-ups. And they're showing off devices at
different angles, and the angles they show the shadow, and when you scroll the device
actually moves and it really emphasizes how beautiful that shadow,
the distance of the shadow shows depth. The Parallax,
when you add a slight shadow behind it and that thing actually pops out of
the screen, very impressive. And just to finish up on a trend, I do
feel that if you have a standard page and someone starts scrolling neatly and
is into your story. And as you go down, maybe it gets
to a bit of a product section. And it's got a subtle bit of Parallax. Then that's a true wow factor. You're like, yeah, that's fresh. And these guys have got some style. And as you said,
immediately in the cool category. But then you start scrolling,
you're like, okay. Obviously increases the motion but
making a webpage sluggish for being cool is not cool at all.
>> Right. [LAUGH] So it's about subtly and
sophistication. >> I reckon subtlety. >> Yeah. >> And just spend some time optimizing your Parralax if you
are going to go that route. So going on to the next trend,
I would say colorful gradients. Definitely we've got gradients here,
and I love it. I'm a big fan of just adding
flavor to the Internet, the standard sites back in the day. Every site was the same. Are gradients overdone? If you've got gradients
all over the place, maybe. But generally if you stick to one
gradient, and you add a central device, screenshots of the product. It looks beautiful, so
I'm a big fan of gradients. They've been really trendy I
would say since 2012 and 2015. And they've become very
popular in the last year. >> [INAUDIBLE] The gradiens substitute textures for awhile, possibly.
>> Yes. Yeah, that's a great point,
do you see a texture gradient? Not so much. But yes, I would say now
it is favored over texture. I do think that if when we see a side knot
and it's 2017, 2018 with some texture. And it's executed beautifully with
shadows and it's subtle Parallax or something that is a stand out sight
cause gradients are over done now. Lots of sites are launching
with gradients, so averagely designed site with gradients is
just going to fade to the back for me. It's no longer a first wow,
they use a gradient. This company is unique. Not any more. Gradients is a pretty popular
thing as you can see here. As you can see,
here's a template of modern and a template to and
you get to pick them and so on. But just talking about Gradients,
when it's Uber as well. So the point I want to make here
is that when MySpace launched with the video background,
trends were kicking off. Uber launched this quite awhile ago. I only featured it late,
but it was early 2017. And it was just showing their sign
language tool app, but also gradients. And when you start seeing the big guys
start using these trends, ripple effect. And so see I would say
gradients are here to stay. And next up I would say a trend that came
shortly after gradients was drop shadows. This is when you have
an element within the page and, as you can see,
it just feels a bit levitated. It's just raised above the page. And you can see, it often,
instead of using a border, you can use the the drop shadow. And it's quite soft on the eyes,
it's easy to read. And yeah, this has become really popular. So a gradient, along with the raised
elements above it, I would say, is very the trend at the moment.
>> And maybe let me interject for a second. Where maybe we can
discuss why this happens. In my conscious,
it's kind of like art history. Or someone invents a new
technology like photography, or someone invents a new paint. And all of a sudden paintings look
different, because there's a new color or a new technique or something. So I would say, was it CSS3 that kind
of propelled gradients, drop shadows, rounded corners,
kind of really into the foreground. because it was all suddenly easy to do?
>> I would say absolutely, because a lot of those sites, so
just say the first Parallax sites. These guys were dealing with
a lot of browser issues. The tech wasn't there, so they would have
to substitute with maybe heavy JavaScript, and libraries and fallbacks,
and it’s basically a disaster. And now we’re using three lines of CSS and we got the most beautiful
levitated button. And obviously the support now is just
getting more, and more and more. And Internet Explorer 6 is,
I think it's pretty much dead, so I mean- >> [LAUGH] I think so. >> I mean, so it's unlocked a world of possibility. But even Internet Explorer, itself,
we were working on fallbacks forever. And from when I was in freelance, we would
come up with an idea like a button and so on, and we'd want a bit of a shadow on it. And we would ask ourselves,
is it worth it? Is it worth this pain and hassle when the client's going to
say this button is broken? That is the button that people are
going to use to sign up to my newsletter. And so we would just keep it simple. And now it works, it works in mobile,
it works everywhere. You'll even notice now, I don't
know the interactive demonstration. But people are now trying to get fancy
when you hover and then the button moves. It becomes a little sensitive, and you
think you're about to press that button. >> The button is anticipating your- >> Actually, you've gotta use that as a tag,
anticipating buttons. But yeah, exactly, that, exactly that. So the gradients,
the texture with that CSS3 gradient, and we're talking it's within the CSS,
it's beautiful. The button hovering across
another line of CSS, these are pretty light,
fast-loading pages, yeah. So the next design, so this pretty much
covers what's been happening, I think. And I want to just talk about
a few trends that I feel are, they're happening, but they're taking off. Maybe they won't, maybe they will,
but I think we should feature them just within the one page trend is you
know, [COUGH] excuse me, brutalism. And I've got the definition here,
it's derived from the French word raw. And I almost feel it's like a rebellion
against exactly what I was talking about. So it's a perfect segue, so
people latch onto the trend. And they think we have to go gradient, we have to have a hovering,
anticipating button. And these guys are like no way, I want to have information
on my page in my way or a different way, at least,
and it's going to be raw. So with these examples,
they sometimes have a huge amount of text, or they have text over text. And it's almost arrogant, that's a push
to say that, but they're saying- >> I think that word, I like that actually quite a bit. because looking at this,
there is an arrogance in saying I am treating you very coldly.
>> Yes, so let's see if the site loads up here. People are saying my event is rad,
it's unique. And if you really want it, you'll find
the information within this page. So here we go, you have to almost find
the information, you have to discover. You have to dig it out, and
it's in a very raw way. And I kind of like that,
as well, because they're saying, I'm not going to conform to trends. This is as unique as it gets,
it's almost chaotic in a sense. But all the information
is there if I need, I'm saying usability-wise,
I reckon we're on the fence. But it's also got flavor,
individualism, it can be colorful. Sometimes they will also bring
a old trend like back in the day, we used to have news tickers, where
they used to scroll across as scrollers. Brutalism will throw a news ticker over
the main image that's going to say, hello or something. So yeah, that's just one trend. I want to say that it's
definitely become popular. Also an indication when things
become popular is you see templates starting to come out within that. because more people want them,
they're providing for that need. And then combining minimalism with
Brutalism is also quite unique. Let's open up this Dropbox design again. Here's Dropbox, some of the best
designers in the world, and they latched onto Brutalism. So, when you go through this page,
you scroll down and it's just got the craziest typography. There's nothing normal about this page. But it's expressive, it's got flavor,
it's artistic, and you know what? It becomes remarkable, and that's
where I just want to finish it up on the Brutalism segment, it is remarkable. If you take apart the most
popular sites at the moment, there's gradients, there's the shadow,
they almost start to blend in. Like if you think of a SaaS service at
$9 a month, that's accounting software. And all the top ones,
they kind of look the same, the landing page look the same.
>> Yeah. >> Me going through the Dropbox design, and wow, that was rememberable
at the end of the day. And yet, I would say, that's where I'm
going to give brutalism some credit. So next up is a short one,
I don't have that many references. But it's the push to have
long form journalism. So what this is is basically
interactive storytelling where, as you scroll down,
the page moves and so on. So I've got a reference here,
I haven't loaded up the site, because it absolutely
will show your resources. But you interact on the site,
there's a video background, you scroll down,
it loads up data statistics. Any information you need, it'll load on. But this you are finding
on dedicated domains. And what they try to do is give you
more information about a topic, or some sort of documentary, someone will
talk about the life of a football coach. And instead of having 12 different pages, it's one long scrolling page,
very rich in media. But it's almost like this is what
they're creating instead of a video. And they're trying to incorporate trends,
trying to push the limits, and I see a lot of news sites do this, the
New York Times, I'm a big advocate of it. I'm not saying it's the best
use of the usability, but I expect to see more of this for sure.
>> Yeah, and I've been a big fan of this for a while. I feel like it's kind of combining
the idea of a magazine article, a printed magazine piece, and a video to
make this narrative scrolling experience. It´s strange, it´s obviously still
a website but it kind of really marries other media and other formats in there
especially the kind of time based. It's time based in a way but not based
on you watching passively a movie but on you scrolling down the page.
>> That's exactly it. So a perfect segway into a trend
that is hot off the press and the type form which is one of my
favorite online survey services. They just announced that they released
their first conversational interface, and I can actually see this
marrying with long form journalism. And I can even see this integrating
into learning pages and product pages. I would say this is probably the hottest,
newest trend I could think of right now. And just to give you a little
demonstration, as you start scrolling, here's Paul over here who is
the author of this article okay? It's written by Paul and I've just gone
back to this page and now he goes, is this still Rob? So then I go-
>> [LAUGH] >> Yeah, it's me and then we start going. I mean, the engagement here
is ridiculous compared to. So to give you an example,
he just adds little snippets. It feels like he's speaking to you. And you just have two options and so on. And what's great, and
if I can try and find this reference, so you get going, you're really
intrigued in the article, and then he'll ask you something and
you actually ask for more. So what's great about this is it
actually keeps the website condensed for those who want to just get a broad topic. But he's just got so much more information
and this is probably the part of the article that he was thinking of
putting in, but then it makes the article 30 minutes and now he's headed down to 17,
he's got his snippets. I don't know how long it would
take to actually create this, but I'm pretty sure [INAUDIBLE] into this.
>> Yeah. >> And they will create this as a service. So what I'm getting is, I think within
pages, we've got a chance in the corner on our landing pages where we're like,
can we help you and so on. What about integrating this sort
of interface on a product landing page where maybe you're not
sure about the pricing table? Like hey, just checking in,
does this make sense? And then, you're like, hey, I'm just
not so sure or tell me more about that, and then within the page,
it slides up more information. But unobstrusive,
out the west like I can see it. I haven't seen it but I'm-
>> Thanks for showing this. The CLN really brings in
the human element as well. >> [CROSSTALK]. >> And a bit of a gaming element too like a interactive storytelling, you're kind of choose your own adventure [LAUGH].
>> It's like we're not going to go too deep in this but
think all the boxes, this is ticking. This is a human connecting with
another human on a product page, this is like, hey, I'm actually going to
support this guy who made this font. It's like, hey, that's him, he's speaking to me.
>> Yeah. >> He spent the time. I can imagine this would increase conversions considerably.
>> Yeah. >> Just connecting on a human level within a landing page. So just to finish up on the trends, I've got here just two more and
I'll just cover them quick. Centrally divided layouts. What this actually does, it's the line
down the middle, content left and right. But what this does is it just gives
you all the information you need sort of without scrolling and it allows
two different designs It's just that, it's a nice way to blend in. You can scroll in some but I'm just
syaing there's more and more and more but I do quite like it. A great example is Product Sense
just released an app and you can catch up on daily stories. And here is the demonstration. And I haven't clicked anything, and
that's exactly how the app looks. And then here's my information
on the left, item scrolls, and there's my download. It's just a beautiful arrangement
of contents in my opinion. And you can see what
the responsive design does, actually I don't want to touch my screen
in case we don't get the the raise back. And then the last thing that
I want to talk about and this is definitely in the last
two years is diagonal lines. So you can just see them along here,
along here, along here. It's just from such a traditionally
structured horizontal dividers, it allows, I mean you can see it. It just adds more flavor to your page and
the biggest one we had, I mean sorry the most popular one
we ever had was, We Ain't Plastic. And this funny enough is the most shared
pin we have on Pinterest by a long shot. So as you can see,
it just breaks up the design by having a central element that with
a diagonal line behind it. A few items, and you can see what's so
great about the diagonal line or any divider, you don't need a border,
and you see in the next section that it just adds a little bit more flavor.
>> And also surprise, because that's not usually how websites work.
>> Exactly. >> Good reason, because I don't know, five, ten years ago, it would have been insane to do that well.
>> I mean that's very difficult to execute, and back in the day you would
have to have some images that would be responsive, blah, blah,
blah, but now this and so on. So yeah, I would actually recommend
at least trying it in your next few designs until it gets overdone, and
then we'll move on to another trend. But yeah, that's generally for me,
that's a good I think summary of the current trends within website design.
>> That was very, very instructive and
delightful to listen to, thank you. Maybe then I'll just have one more,
well okay I'll give you a chance. Tell us a little but about your show,
I think and maybe could wrap it up. >> Okay, cool, no worries. So I've been working on One Page Love for a long time, 7,000 references collected. Two years ago, when I took the leap, I
had to carry on working on One Page Love. I had to keep this thing monetized. It became sort of a steady ship and I basically instruct
people around the world. I could work on any day I wanted. I'm super grateful for
the position that I got myself in. But I found myself not growing,
essentially, and it became a bit of a routine. And these things aren't
always good signals. And when you find yourself going,
I'm just going to do some work, you're not challenging yourself enough. So what I did, and after the holiday
period, now it was the first of January and I'm trying to actually think of
what sparked it off properly, but I just said I have to do something with
Sia that is completely out the blue. I'm scared of it. I don't know how to do it at all. And I've been building websites for
a while. I can build a website,
I can build a WordPress theme. I have no idea how video works. So, my background is surfing, and
I used to play in a band back in the day, you know I love music. I'm a big fan of color, visuals. And I just thought, you know what? I'm going to include my favorite
websites in visual format. And then, I also am interacting,
like I just mentioned a sketch library. I see these things every day, so
why not talk about that as well? So I'm surrounded by design and
development news, trends, and so on. And I said,
why don't I just create this thing? i honestly didn't even know what I did
because I gave myself one month and I said,
you have one month to learn how to film. You need to know lighting, editing,
you have to learn Premier. And you´re going to put it together. No matter what you have you´re going to
release that thing on the first of February. And I did it and
it killed me that I loved it. I promise you that month will go down as
one of the best months of the last decade working online by a long-short. Completely submerged in
the learning process. And when you building websites and
you been eight years in the client job, yeah you get to learn a new trend and
so on. But, I had near nothing. It was and that's like you're at
the bottom of the mountain and it's actually amazing. And people say,
I've been working the industry for 20 years that's great but
it's not new and this was new for me. So anyway, a long story short,
I put it out there. I was a little bit scared. The whole point was to be
something I'm scared of. And the reception was incredible. It got shared on a few good sites. But the encouragement
of people like my word, this is exactly what I've been needing. Condensed, colorful, vibrant. Within the sector we're in with design and
development, there are guys making shows out there. Create content, but
I wanted to integrate it with my flavor. Punk rock music.
>> Jokes. >> Color. Jokes. Visuals.
>> [LAUGH] >> But essentially, it's everything that I've ever enjoyed. I try to condense into the show,
and so, each week I try and put out a seven, eight minute
show on YouTube and it's crazy. I can see this has opened a lot of doors,
and I can see it becoming my life in the next little while, for sure.
>> Well Rob, that sounds really cool and I want to congratulate you because
I've been watching the shows and been enjoying them a lot.
>> Thank you. >> There's a lot of good energy and great information as well. So then maybe the very last thing,
where can people find out more about you? You have to show Yo on YouTube I
guess you can google that, what else. >> So I would say, I'm trying to simplify it. I've been dealing with side projects
forever and I've had so many in this year I decided that I'm going to focus,
I'm going to go all in on videos. So RobHope.com forward slash YO. There it is. YouTube if you search Yo. And youtube.com/RobHope as well. And then Twitter, RobHope. And I think that's pretty much it.
>> Alright cool. Well then, I want to really thank you so
much for your time. >> My pleasure. And all the best to your students,
hope they build great things. >> Thank you so much. >> Okay, awesome. Cheers Ryan.
>> Cool, thank you.