Here we are at the third and final part of Working with Wireframes. In this segment, we're going to look at how to make a Wireframe Map. In our first section, we made some wireframes, and then our second section, we will find those wireframes. Now we're going to take them and we're going to put them into a wireframe map. We've already got a blueprint for this wireframe map which is our sitemap. So, this can form the basis for our wireframe map, but some things have probably changed when we were making the wireframes, so it's not going to be an exact replica. So, here are some of my more refined wireframe screens, but I'm going to need more than just three. I'm going to have to make a screen of pretty much every interaction that the user has in order to make my wireframe map. So, these would range from our identity screen at the beginning, to our main navigation screen, login screens, search screens, and results screens. It's quite useful to put all your screens side-by-side before you make the sitemap because you can check for inconsistencies. There might be elements that are missing from certain screens, for instance, I might need a menu on some of my screens so that I could escape them and get back to the previous screen if I needed to. I may not have been thinking about that menu when I design these earliest screens. I might also have just made some silly mistakes, there's some confusion and inconsistency on these screens about the positioning of the password and address fields. You could also start to think a little bit more about navigation, and about how your menus are going to move, how will they appear and disappear for instance. So, I might want my map to be movable in every direction. I'd want my keyboard to pop up from the bottom of the screen, and then to go back down and hide at the bottom of the screen as well. When I have too much information, I want that information to be able to slide underneath my menu elements at the top. My smaller menus might reveal themselves with a diagonal movement from the corner. I might also want to swipe through a series of different animals on my lost and found pages. When you feel that your screens are resolved, you have to decide what kind of layout you're going to use, what kind of wireframe layout is going to best represent the way that your app works. Try to organize your screens in a simple and logical fashion, but also take into account your specific content. There might be a special way of organizing your screens that really works for your app. We can look at some structural compositions that might reflect this. Rather than laying out all of your screens in an even handed fashion, you could create a pyramid structure for instance. This might imply one single important screen with two layers of interaction following on from it. This layout isolates the home screen but shows us two fairly even areas of interaction, while this layout might represent six areas of interaction, or even centered around our home screen. When you decide how to layout your wireframe app, you could use the same areas of organization that you used for your sitemap. For instance, I had a login and a sign up section, a number of activities that I could do on my home screen, and then separate areas my three main categories of activity. As with our sitemap and user flowchart, we could connect these screens in a way that we think a user is going to travel through them. So, we might end up with an organizational structure that is very similar to our sitemap but it's also a much closer and more accurate representation of both the UX experience and the UI experience. You can keep expanding your wireframe map to show all of the wireframes and all of the sections that you've designed, to show the whole functionality of your app, and you can also print out each of these screens, and do another round of User Testing using your wireframe designs. This would function in the same way as our earlier paper prototype where the tester would be given options to the user, and the user would be making decisions about how they travel through the app. The tester would be observing what works for the user and also what doesn't work. In reality, this would probably be the stage in your process where you carried out your main phase of paper prototyping. You'd be doing that with a number of different users, you'd gathering feedback from all of those users, collating, and evaluating that information, making revisions to your wireframes, re-working them and then putting them back out there for testing, and retesting, and retesting. This testing phase works in a cyclical way and one lap can be repeated many times, and hopefully, each time you test and change, it makes your app better. So, you'd be testing your wireframes with sample users observing their interactions and reactions, evaluating the results, and then implementing whichever of those results you deemed valuable, then you'd make new wireframes and start the cycle all over again. This part of our app development processes is optional here. If you have the time and if you have access to a willing group of people, family and friends for instance, then try it. Once more you could role play, and you could act as if you were the ideal user and try and give yourself feedback on your own app. Just like our wireframes are more developed version of our paper prototype, this round of user testing should be more developed too. So, try to simulate the actual experience of your app. Use the frame of a phone printed out with your designs inside those screens at 100% of scale, try and present the screens to a user one at a time, and while you're making an analog version of a digital experience, the experience part can still be quite similar, but remember not every individual user is going to give you useful feedback. So, evaluate the feedback and see if it's worth implementing, and you don't have to have 50 users to get good results, tests have shown that five users will give you the same feedback as 50. So, while the volume of the feedback changes, the actual feedback doesn't. So, if you can find five people to test your wireframe on, that will be fantastic.