In this section we're going to talk a little bit more about size and format of our screens. We've talked previously about the differences in real estate between a hand-held mobile device and a computer screen but we've been ignoring some very important things, like the fact that one is often vertical and the other is always horizontal but most importantly that they operate at radically different scales. If I shrink my phone down to the scale of my computer screen you can see just quite what a difference that is. And while this scale is accurate in terms of physical inches, it's not actually accurate in terms of how we use these devices and how much space they take up in our field of vision. In order to figure that out we have to take into account viewing distance, how far is the screen away from our eyeballs. I might hold my phone right in front of my face, it might only be 10 inches away. But I might sit much further away from a very large computer screen that could be as much as 24 inches. So if I adjust the size of these screens to take into account viewing distance, they're not as desperate as you think. Within my field vision they are not as wildly different as they first appear. The relative scale of these two screens is much closer than their physical measurements. In order to try and prove this let's take some elements on each screen and put them at the correct size for that screen. Let's figure out what we think the right sizes for readable type on our computer screen, and let's also add an estimated size for legible images and we can also see how many images are going to fit on the screen then we can take those same components and estimate what their size would be on a handheld device. The relationship between the image and text size isn't that different but what you can see of course, is that we can fit far fewer images within the window of the handheld device. If we look at the grid on both of these screen sizes, we can see that it's not wildly different. It's really just been a scaled up a little bit and expanded. And when we compare the screens like this they don't seem that different in terms of scale. If I use screen grabs from our real world example of the poster website you can see that that difference in scale is even less. In terms of how we see things in our field of vision it's really not that different as we looked at before and a lot of ways the phone is a smaller window on a much larger world. In this case the larger world is the website itself or the computer screen. Another way to look at it is that both our phone and our computer are windows to content, and they might be looking at the same thing but it's slightly different scales. While there are differences between how we see things with these two sizes of screen there's also a structural relationship between them so there are often similarities as well as differences. So then the next question is which screen size do I design for first? Which size or format is going to be the most important? And the answer is my usual one, well it depends on the context, it depends on the content of your app or website, it depends on what you want it to do and how it's going to be used. But it also depends on who's going to use it. You have to ask yourself from the start, who is my audience? And what platform are they going to use my app or website on? And increasingly the answer is that it's going to be used and viewed on a small screen. Increasingly we design for the handheld mobile device first and for the larger computer screen second. While websites aren't just going to disappear and all be replaced by apps we're already in a phase where the website has had to adapt to living in a much smaller space.