Navigating around a website efficiently is among the most important criteria for a successful user experience. Wireframes are the perfect time to figure out what navigation systems to employ. We've already laid a lot of the groundwork for our navigation by creating the sitemap, which, as you remember, was the final outcome of the previous phase. Then we were concerned with questions of what to call our pages and how the user would get from one point to another. Now, during the wireframing phase, we answer the following questions. Where are the links located on the page? Are some links more important than others? How are the links grouped? What other options are available based on the current task? And, a very fundamental question for every user, where am I? I will talk about this last question in more detail in the next lesson. For now, let's discuss how different navigation systems help us create pages that are intuitive for our users and let them easily accomplish the tasks they need to accomplish. In this video, we will talk about primary navigation, secondary navigation, utility navigation, anchor links, and links to related content. We'll also discuss inline links, something called an index, and search. Along the way, I will use wireframe examples for a fictitious shopping website to showcase navigational concepts in detail. I will also refer to these four real-life example websites. The Pasadena Conservatory of Music, a music school in the Los Angeles area, Substance, an academic journal, The Order of the Good Death, a non-profit death-positive advocacy organization, and, of course, the CalArts Art School Project Archive. I was involved in the conception, design, and development of all of these sites, so I have pretty good insights of why things were done a certain way. Okay, first up is the primary navigation. You're probably already familiar with the term. It's the main navigation, showcasing all top-level sections of the website. Looking at a sitemap, determining which sections make up the primary navigation should be pretty easy. It's all the items that are directly attached to the homepage. Well, maybe not all of them. It does get a little more complicated. Let's leave cart and account aside for the moment. They could be part of the primary navigation, but since they are somewhat different from the rest of the main content, we'll deal with them separately in a moment. So here you can see the main navigation implemented into a wireframe, let's say for the homepage. Again, we are not indicating that the links will be designed as gray buttons in a generic typeface. This is simply a sketch. And while it doesn't tell us much about the final look and feel, it does tell us about the order of the links, and that they will be laid out horizontally across the screen next to the logo. In the desktop view at least. I will mainly focus on talking about the desktop here for the sake of simplicity. When you study many websites, you will notice that placing the primary navigation to run horizontally across the top of the page has become quite the convention. Most sites do exactly that. Though, another option would be to put the primary navigation running vertically on the left. And you'll find some sites that work like this. And there is nothing inherently wrong with that. It always depends on the project you are working on. If you, for example, have a large number of primary links, or if the labels of the links are really long, this vertical version might work better for you. But you are also allocating a pretty large area of the screen, an entire left column, only to the navigation. So if you have a lot of other content to display on your pages, you'll probably want to stick to a horizontal primary menu. In our example sites, most display the primary navigation horizontally in the desktop version. For the Pasadena Conservatory, we have About, Departments, Young Musicians, Adult Studies and Role, Current Students, Events, and Blog. The order website has Learn, Get Involved, Resources, About, and Store. And the project archive has just three primary links, Home, Projects, and Artists. The layout of the Substance website is a bit different. There are four links, but they run vertically on the right side of a rather tall header. This structure is of course only possible since there are only a few links. If there were twice as many, we would have had to find a different solution. The next navigation system is the secondary navigation. This represents the subsections of our site. Now, some sites are so simple that they get away without any subsections and secondary navigation. But most sites have them. And again, you can look at your sitemap and see pretty clearly which pages belong to the secondary navigation. In this example, the Shop and About sections have subpages that will need a secondary navigation. And how could this be designed in our wireframe? Well, we could use a drop-down menu that shows when the user clicks on a primary menu item. This would allow easy access to all secondary pages without having to visit an intermediary landing page first. On the secondary pages, we could also have a secondary menu. In this case, I added it to the left side of the screen going down vertically. This would allow the user to quickly navigate between different secondary pages. And it also provides a quick overview of what other pages exist in this section. In our examples, the Project Archive website does not need any drop-down menus. Instead, when you click on projects or artists, you get a list of all projects and artists. The Pasadena Conservatory uses simple drop-down menus. An advantage here is that the user can get to any of the secondary pages very quickly. Note that there are three sections, Young Musicians, Adult Studies, and Blog, that don't have subpages. So those don't have a drop-down menu. This is indicated by the omission of the little gray triangle next to the links. On the Order website, we see something that is often described as mega menus. When you click on a primary link, you get a very large drop-down that not only includes links, but also thumbnail preview images, buttons, and decorative illustrations. This allows much more space for creating typographic hierarchy and creating visual excitement. Let's quickly look at how this website deals with the menu on mobile. Clearly, there will not be enough space to display these mega menus when the screen size is small. In fact, we can't even fit the primary menu items horizontally on small screens. What happens is that the entire menu is compressed into what is called a hamburger menu. Hamburger because the three lines, which look like two buns and a patty in the middle. This icon has become a standard for menu buttons. When this icon is clicked, the menu opens and we see the primary menu items now running vertically. When these are clicked, the secondary menus are revealed. The information in the secondary menus is slightly rearranged so that it all fits into one column. Beside the primary and secondary navigation, we have the utility navigation. There is no strict rule of what to place inside a utility menu or whether you even need one. Often, sections of the site that are not directly part of the site's main content will be included here. That could be the help sections or the shopping cart or login or social media links. In our fictitious example, one could argue that the cart and account links, while important options, are different from the site's main content. They are utilitarian in nature. So these would be good candidates for the utility navigation. This navigation is often placed in the top right corner, separate from the main navigation. The other two links we'll include here are links to social media, Instagram and Facebook in this case. Let's check how our real-life example sites make use of utility navigation. On the Pasadena Conservatory site, the social media links plus contact and donate are placed above the primary links in the utility navigation. The order website separates two buttons for help legalize and donate from the primary navigation. We decided to do this mostly to place special emphasis on these important sections. On the Project Archive website, we have a hamburger menu even on the desktop view, which holds four links that could be described as utility navigation. They are much less important than the links that are always visible. It's interesting to note that this site's primary menu is so simple that there is room for it to be visible even on the smallest mobile screens. When we organize a lot of content, we often break it up into separate pages and design a navigation to access these pages. That's the whole point of the primary, secondary and utility navigation systems we just discussed. At other times, it makes sense to just have a lot of content on one long page. On such long pages, we can still add navigation for easier usability. This navigation is called anchor links. Some also call it in-page navigation. It allows the user to jump to a specific place on the current page. In a way, an anchor link navigation acts like a table of contents for the current page. Take the Frequently Asked Questions page as an example. We could structure it so that questions and answers are listed on one long scrolling page, separated into sections. In this example, you see that there are four main sections. Shipping, Returns, Ordering Samples and Privacy. And the anchor link navigation on the top of the page allows the user to automatically scroll to each section on the page. On the Substance side, you can see a nice example of an anchor link navigation on the Issues landing page. The journal issues are sorted in reverse chronological order. The links on the left allow us to jump to a particular decade. Note that this menu is sticky, meaning it stays in view even as we scroll. On the Order side, there are many pages that hold a lot of information. Here is the Books page in the Resources section. It has a table of contents on the top that shows us all the content we will find here. And we can easily navigate to a section further down on the page. The next navigation system to discuss is the Related Content navigation. These are shortcuts to other content that are dependent on the current context. So we could have links to other products that are related to the products the user is currently looking at. On the Substance side, each article has two links to related content. You can navigate to the journal issue where the article was published. And you can click on another link that takes you to the site Muse, where the entire article is available for download. On the Order side, each post in the Articles section can be shared on social media. The links that facilitate the sharing can be thought of as related content navigation. Also, on the bottom of most articles, there are references to related articles. Inline links are simply links embedded in the content itself. That's what made the web so famous in the first place. The ability to hyperlink a word in a sentence to any other page on any other website. Just one piece of advice. Don't add too many links to your writing. You might have experienced this before. When reading Wikipedia articles or certain blog posts, it can make the text pretty distracting and difficult to read. Okay, only two more navigational systems to cover. An index is simply a list of items sorted in some way. Most of the time, the sorting is done alphabetically or chronologically. Whenever you have a long list of options, let's say a list of employees or a list of blog posts or a list of products, it makes sense to display them as an index. In our example, the Shop section will definitely include a listing of products. And here is an example of links to previously placed orders that are presented as a sorted list in descending order by date. A good example of an index is on the Pasadena Conservatory site. When navigating to About Faculty, we can see an alphabetized list of all faculty members. Well, the sort order is a little more complicated. First, there is a small list of faculty who are artist teachers. Their order is alphabetical, but they are listed before everyone else. Notice, too, the filter and search functions that allow for narrowing down the list. That comes in handy if you're looking for a specific name or a specific department. On the Project Archive website, the two main sections, Projects and Artists, are using an index as the navigation. There is so much content here that a user must click a Show More button to load more content. Also, there are rather complex filtering options to narrow down the choices. And there is a search as well. Speaking of search, this is for users who want to circumvent the navigation altogether because they are looking for very specific content via a keyword. The question whether a site needs a search or not should have been answered in the Outline of Scope phase. Very small sites generally can get away without a search. For other sites, think about Amazon or Netflix, the search is the primary method for users to find content. In our wireframe example here, let's add the search functionality as an option to the utility navigation. That's usually a great spot for it. And for most sites, it is appropriate to have an icon, often a magnifying glass, that will bring up a search field when clicked. Of course, if your site relies on search as a primary way of navigation, then you probably want to display the search field at all times as part of your header design. That way, a user doesn't have to perform an extra click to reveal the search field. But again, on sites where the search is merely a supplemental navigation tool, it is best to remove the search field until it is needed. That makes for a less busy design. And that's what happens in all of our example sites. Each of them uses the magnifying glass icon, which then reveals a large search field. Okay, we covered quite a bit of ground. We talked about how different navigation systems can help you structure the navigation choices for users so that they will find their way to your content. Next up, let's talk about answering the user's question, where am I?