It says recording. How annoying is that? I see it too. Today we have Craig Cooke here with us to talk to us about strategy. I'm going to introduce you quickly Craig, you are the founder and CEO of Rhythm, a digital marketing agency located in Orange County, California. Rhythm has worked with many renowned brands including Acura, Segway, Marriott, and American Airlines. Craig, you were also my very first web design teacher at college back in the year 2000. Yes, turn of the century. You hired me straight out of college for my first job as a web designer. Because you were the best student. Thank you. I want to add that you're also a pretty mean guitar player. As are you. We played together in a band when we were working together. That was a lot of fun. I was thinking about that yesterday, actually, when thinking about the call and how we used to have those after work jams. Sometimes at lunchtime. That's right. So maybe to start off Craig, tell us a little bit more about your company Rhythm. Okay sure. So we go back to what I like to refer to as the ancient days of the Internet. We started back in 1996, and we started really marketing independent music. We built a site called Rhythmnet.com and there we'd showcase we'd we built what we called interactive showcases. It was a place where people could come to a website to discover independent music, read about these independent musicians, artists. Learn about them, listen to their song samples and then buy their CD's to a secure server way back in 1996. But, that was a time, an idea before it's time because back then when we started and launched the website, Internet connection speed was 14.4 modem and then it boosted up to 28 K, blazing fast speeds. There was no MP3's, there was only about 30 million people worldwide online at the time which is about the population of California say. People are just afraid to buy things online at that time they are afraid of oh, I can't put my credit card on the Internet that's not safe. So, just an idea before it's time. So we struggled with that model for the first, say, couple of years. But during that time, companies started to come to us and said, "Hey, this Internet stuff, can you design a website?" and we said, "Sure." After filling a number of those requests, we decided to change the model of the music website over to the side as a side project and really focus on being a web design company providing website design services for organizations. So we re-branded as rhythm@design group. That's the day the music died maybe I refer to it sometimes. We always intended to get back to that website but we got so busy with client work. We tried to do it and you helped there at the time when you came on board. Yeah I worked on the site. Yeah, we just never really got back to that, but that's okay. Back in 1998, definitely saw a vision for where the future of marketing and advertising were headed because of the accountability that the Internet brings through measurability analytics and so forth. Really thought that the future would be more about an integrated approach by combining online and offline. So we decided to really focus on the digital model and build up that skill set. So we started getting well-versed in CD ROM development, email marketing, search marketing, a variety of digital communication tactics and channels. Also picked up some traditional skills along the way too with graphic identity, branding and even package design, print collateral and so forth. But really focused on that digital as our core, our DNA to say. You've seen a bunch of formats come and go in the meantime too, right? A bunch of software come and go. Absolutely, the software is totally different I mean when I've started it was the easy days where you can code HTML in a simple text editor and I think Adobe Pagemaker came along that was a big deal. But the code looks totally different today and I can't even forget it, I can't even code. It's funny that you just said CD-ROM. When was the last CD-ROM that you produced? Do you remember that? I mean, I assume you don't do that anymore. No we don't, I would say the last project we actually ended up delivering someone USB drives, and that was the last time we did one of those applications. It was probably about two or three years ago, but an actual CD was probably about five years ago probably which is still kind of surprising right. That's 2013, yeah. Yeah, from that period of 2001, I think the first CD-ROM we did was about 1998-1999. Then from 2000-2001 up until 2010 we just did a tremendous amount, and we used to use director and migrated to flash, and then we used to do on the package design and print brokering and disk replication. It was quite something and you worked on a number of those projects. Yeah I remember that. But now it's all on the Internet fast connections et cetera. When I was working at Rhythm, it was four people. Now it's 40. You add zero to that we're about 40 now. Very exciting. So our conversation will center around setting goals and establishing metrics and measuring success. Why is that so important? It's really important because everything we advocate is strategy first approach, what happens a lot, less so now because more people are really getting more cognizant about the importance of strategy and analytics, really setting out to create a marketing solution that's just not relying on a single say trick of the day of the nice little shiny object or silver bullet. Doesn't really solve all problems it may work for a short time but we believe in what we call an integrated approach. With digital at the core and really advocating that someone needs to really employ a strategy first mindset. With that strategy it's really about putting down goals and objectives and success criteria and how those things are going to be measured. There's a lot of different ways to do that which we could talk about, but if you don't do that off right at the start, it can get really hard later on in dealings with clients and agency, or even if it's in house to executives. What was the purpose? Was there a success? Why are we doing this? Should we keep doing this? Should we do something different? A lot things that come into play. Really, people need to take a little bit of time because it doesn't require a ton of time, but some time to really set down these goals, objectives, requirements, and success criteria. Yeah I'm glad you're mentioning that because that's how I'm teaching this course to my students. They don't put the, don't jumpe to obvious or visual solutions before you really have studied the problem. Can you talk a little bit about that initial conversation that you have with the clients? Will they come with predefined goals or you have to figure that out together is there some hand-holding required? It's just both every client is different and they all have their unique needs and also problems. I like the fact that you mentioned the word problem because that's what we're trying to do here. We're trying to solve problems and bring solutions to the table. It always takes during the very first contact. We're determining if there's a fit, what kind of issues are at play? What is someone trying achieve? How can we help with that? So, really the initial conversations determining if there's a fit for one; and two, sitting down together and really figuring out what is the scope of the assignment or project at hand. What's the magnitude of scope? At that point, there needs to be some expectation setting as to what can happen with the engagement between the two parties. Then once the paperwork, let's say the paperwork is signed, it's really important to set expectations and manage those expectations along the process, the entire process. What I always like to tell people, the onset in expectations is that everyone's well intended but we all are human and not everything goes to plan. Normally, there will be some bumps in the road and it's really about how we handle those bumps together is what really makes a difference at the end of the day. What are some typical success criteria that you establish? Is it page views for a website, is it products sold or is it streamlining operations? Yes, yes to all. Again, every situation is different. Is it more of a B2C, a business to consumer initiative, is it more of a B2B, a business to business initiative? If it's more B2B, it might be increase leads. It's more lead generation focus. It could be increase leads by X percent or it could be that they really are having a problem with even generating leads in the first place and tracking and responding to those leads. So, it might be more about getting a solution in place with certain technology platforms and that is step one, and just getting that infrastructure setup is success, let alone just trying to quantify the number of leads. So it really depends. I mean, there's the obvious ones where you have number of leads, number of sales and so forth. But many times, it can get much deeper than that as far as how are you going to help the overall business from an operational standpoint, to operate more effectively and efficiently. So, you mentioned that it depends. So let's talk about a few specific projects that you've worked on. I think we were going to talk about a web project, an email project and a video project, because those are all digital rounds, they're not all necessarily focused on web design but it's the digital platform. Which one makes sense to talk about first? Well, how about we talk about Segway, which was a website project. What I have here that I'm going to be referring to is just a page out of our project brief. The way it's set up is we have a project background, an overview that talks about the situation at hand just so that the client is able to feel good that we have a good understanding of them and their situation at hand. Then we start with business goals. This case was to launch a new website to support the new brand launch for Segway. Segway, again, is these little motorized scooters with two wheels that you can roll on. Yes, that's right. They came out in 1998, 99 something like that. I think it's 2001 because I was working for you. Oh, yeah. That's right. It's hard for me to remember. It was a while. It was a while ago, yes. So, interestingly enough, they were purchased by a Chinese company a few years back, and that was one of the second goals actually, which was really interesting. I liked it because it was different outside of just the normal, "Hey, we need to sell more product or increase leads." The second goal was to perform as an organization to demonstrate achievements that are only possible in America, to do things that China cannot in their own domestic markets. What that meant was, before we came into the picture, they were trying to get their website launched for about a year-and-a-half and it was just failing. I think they went through two vendors and it was just stalled out and it just wasn't getting done. This is back, probably about two, three years ago and they were rebranding themselves. They were actually reinventing the entire company. They had worked on some exciting new technologies with Intel and Google in regards to robotics, and they really needed to reinvent themselves to the marketplace. So they were working on a rebranding effort and there's a company that we partner with, more of a traditional advertising agency called Lucy Advertising, that we work with quite a bit. They were working on the brand identity and whole rebranding effort. So, in conjunction, we came into the picture and with all that brand work that Lucy created to translate into the digital world. We had a very short timeline to do so. I think that it was about mid-September when they signed off, maybe late September when they signed off and we essentially had October, November and December to get the website launched in time for CES which was like January 3rd or something like that at the time. Get the website launched. take the new brand identity which was still being worked on, actually, when we started the project, and incorporate all that, build an entire new platform with a content management system that was brand new and robust, and had third party data integrations with different tools that they needed to have in place, and get that all done in that short timeframe, which really was about that second goal, to really get it done because that wasn't getting done before. That very first goal really launched a new website and supported this whole new brand relaunch, the reinvention of Segway. And here are some objectives in addition to those goals. So we want to produce a site that is accessible across devices, meaning desktop, tablet and smartphone. Drive revenue with a tourism reservation system. It's actually one of their primary revenue generators at Segway is to book a tour globally, around the world. So, and if you could be at, say, Huntington Beach and book a tour there, there are fixed Segways strolling down the beach area or somewhere in Europe, book a Segway tour. So, that was a system that we had to create, have it in place, so that it could support that, really, one of their primary revenue streams. I think there's a lot of deficiencies with the system that they had in place. Then another objective was to launch the website in time for CES. Our target date was 12/31/2015. So that was it's timeframe. So, it was very specific. CES, is it a trade show or? Oh, yes. For those that do not know, that CES is an incredibly huge trade show. It's the Consumer Electronics Show, happens every year in Las Vegas and it's probably the biggest trade show I've ever been to. It's just incredibly huge, takes over quite a bit of the city there, yeah. But, that is a very specific quantifiable objective which I like to, goals should be more broad in general, in the sense that the objectives are what you set in order to achieve those goals, and the objectives should be more focused and narrow. Sometimes, some people use the acronym SMART for, let's say SMART objectives, or sometimes people say SMART goals, but I prefer to use it for objectives, where it's specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and timely. Something along those lines, everyone can Google it. But, I think that's a nice model to apply towards objectives. It's a more specific, more quantifiable and again, once you achieve your objectives in order to attain your goals. The way we like to look at it from a strategic standpoint, is in order to achieve those objectives, you have to set out a number of tactics, which are much more specific, very specific items to put in place or to execute on in order to achieve those objectives. So, it goes from goal. You have a bunch of objectives to fulfill the goal, and then you have a bunch of tactics to fulfill the objective. It's like a tiered structure. Yes, exactly. There's a hierarchy there, a tiered structure. That's the way we like to think about it. There's all kinds of different ways that people have, not say our ways. or my way, is the best way, but it is a way. It's a way that works for us. You are creating a shared language in your company where you understand of what you're talking about, right? And it keeps everyone focused. That's right and that's an important part you bring up because as new people have come on board, sometimes people have had a challenge with that that we brought on board. They just had a different way of thinking from their past work experience. They didn't understand that tiered structure and how they were connected. It was more much more general and broad. like oh yeah we have some goals. We have more than that actually. Sometimes, some people might have but in reverse, like, "Yeah, we have objectives but there's no real goals." It's something that model is something I just learned back in college and it was some sort of management class that I had and I always remembered that and really like that model. So, applied that learning to the business has really served us quite well. Which is an interesting point you bring up about I just realized that you came to this whole thing as a business person. Yes. I have a lot of students taking this particular course on user experience, they coming from all kinds of fields but I assume that a lot of them coming from more visual side. I'm a graphic designer I come to this from a visual standpoint and I'm coder guy but the idea of talking about strategy, it takes a couple of skills that you might not have learned in art school. Yes and vice versa there's a lot of things that I had to learn as the business was going, I was an operations management major and I minored in marketing. One thing that did help, I took it upon myself to volunteer in what was called the multimedia design center and that's way back in the day when macs were popular for doing this called desktop publishing that was the big phase back then we back then but really a lot of publication designs, so people were working with pagemaker an archaic program that's no longer around and Quark Express another program that was really popular back in the day. Not that much around anymore. Not that around anymore. There is still some programs that's still around like Photoshop, I saw Photoshop one and seeing two was like wow, two is so awesome and Illustrator Adobe products when they were infancy and they're still in use today pretty big time although those are being challenged right now actually, it's pretty interesting we're using some really neat new software. Instead of Photoshop? Could you say what? Is it Sketch? Yes, Sketch. Sketch is one of them. There is another program called Zeplin that we're using quite a bit, and we just consolidated, and think we're primarily easy mostly Sketch and then Envision. Okay, Envision? Yes. That's good to hear. That's good to hear. I mean we're still using Photoshop at times but much less. Probably, much less to mock up websites, right? Yes. I mean it doesn't seem to be the right. I never thought it was the right tool. For a while, maybe when you were still slicing and dicing and putting things into tables in the late 90's. Yes. That worked well, but like the right tool to market the website. It's great for image for manipulation, obviously. Yes. It's about times something else kind of really start getting some traction. Yeah. Yeah. So, I took it upon myself to volunteer for that multimedia design center, and then really learn the software applications on my on by teaching other students, teaching faculty, and displaying them and teaching myself. So, even if people that are really in art school, design school, doesn't mean that you don't have to shy away from business concepts, or management concepts, or organizational behavior concepts. Especially today, everyone could learn practically anything by just going on to YouTube and searches. So, I encourage people to just take it on around outside of whatever their core studies are to help round out their skill sets by just being curious and investigating some things that can be very helpful. Cool. Getting back to the Segue project, and in the end, can you talk about a couple of ways of how you measured your success? Also, like when the project launches, is there a period where you kind of get together with the client, and you evaluate the process, and you talk about what works and maybe doesn't work, and what are the steps in the future? Yeah, great question. So, the answer to that immediate question, it depends on the client relationship if it's just a really a one-off project. Hopefully, they would want to take the time. That is the theoretical best practice to definitely do. However, the practical reality of time constraints and how busy everyone is. Sometimes, just people just don't make the time for that, which is an unfortunate thing, but just it is what it is. Clients that where there is more of an ongoing relationship, or say, we execute on a big project but we're also doing other types of work for them, or there might be like a retainer in place. There is a much higher chance that we're going to sit down and evaluate what went right, what went wrong, and course, correct for anything that needs to be course corrected. With Segue, one of the big things was hitting that deadline, and that was one of the stated objectives, and we did that. We launched the site on time, and they went to CS with all their new brand material. They made a really huge deal press releases, speaking engagements, and they had the website there to back it up. One of the requirements to that we had is that, the website had a handle all of the traffic that was going to come in because of the CS publicity. So, we actually put in place the hosting. We handled the hosting as well. We really pumped up the bandwidth which we can scale through Amazon web services really easily, but we really bumped it up those first couple of weeks while that show was going on and afterwards because of the big traffic spike that came in. Also in requirements one thing that we didn't get to yet is in addition to goals, objectives, there's a set of requirements that need to be defined too. Requirements is an area where a lot of people can get tripped up because the goals and objectives are things that need to be attained for success but requirements. for requirements, they're must haves they need to be in place. If you don't meet all the requirements, the chance of you attaining those objectives or those goals, they're significantly diminished. One of the requirements which was pretty interesting is that we had to develop the site to comply with the ADA standards because there was actually some legal issues going on because there's a change in law. It happens from time to time, I think Target was the big profile case where they were sued because their website was not set up to be ADA compliant. So, that's the Americans with Disabilities Act, and it has users that have certain disabilities that don't enable them to surf the web like most people, right? Yeah. Or somehow their mobility is impaired with their hands, etc? Yes, that's absolutely correct. So, that's one of the requirements because that was really important to them, so we put that in place and it was just a must-have. There's also some social media channels that we had to integrate background videos because they really want to show off their product. That was a requirement that we had to have background videos playing in their website of people riding the brand new release products that they were launching at CES. So, along with those requirements that we have the goals, objectives, and requirements, and then the scope of work, it's just the various tactics that are put into place in order to execute the plan and all that. The big thing was really getting that website hitting the headline and then having that tour reservation system in place that was a much better user experience. It was more qualitative than quantitative actually, because the previous one really fell short in the user experience. That was a big one and once the site was launched, everyone was really pleased with the new design, the new experience, the UX, and the cross-device compatibility, the touring system that was also cross-device compatible, it was just a much better experience. It was a lot more of a qualitative aspects except for that one quantitative deadline, that was really important. Yeah. With the booking system is there some metrics that you're able to look at to say, well, it actually increases bookings or increases the traffic or completions? Yes, absolutely. Because there are analytics that are put in place, whenever we develop solutions, analytics have to be put in place. We use Google Analytics quite a bit, so that's in place. But then there was a third-party platform that was used as the booking engine that we integrated into the website. Of course, it actually handles the final transaction and it has it's own set of reporting as well. Through that experience, there was a lift in the bookings that was reported, I'm not at liberty to say that, but there was a lift too in that because the experience is just much more functional, easier to use especially on a tablet and mobile which before it just fell apart. Yeah, right. So, we're doing some fun stuff with Acura, which is a division of American Honda Inc. This was with their North America Corporate Office. I'm looking at our project brief here. This is pretty interesting though because this is a very strategic initiative for Acura. What we're doing here is we're creating what we call conquest videos, as part of an overall of what they referred to as a conquest effort. The strategy is that, as people are in market to shop for a new car, they're going online and they're searching for a number of different vehicles. Acura wants to show up and intercept those shoppers during that research consideration part of the journey. So what we do is we create what are called these comparison videos, where we compare an Acura vehicle to another competitor, say, like a Lexus, or BMW, and so forth. It all depends on the LH model, just the Acura TLX or Acura MDX to which model or competitor model that we can compare to. So it'll be about four to six competitors that we'll come against. We get to actually go back to Honda's own race track, that's way out in the middle of nowhere, but it's pretty neat, pretty cool. We have a production crew, and we set up and we have some talent and we just go through a whole kind of a little bit of a story of comparing Acura against the competitors and get it some emotional feelings in the place, then also it works some rational aspects that help the decision making process. The goals for this and again setting that up with the goals, then the objectives, and then the requirements, and so forth. There's two primary business goals. One is to take business away from the competition, that's primary; and then also to engage users with the Acura brand. That's really important to them. They just want consumers to just really engage with the brand and get those warm fuzzy positive feelings, increase that brand sentiment. Now the way the business objectives were organized there is primary, secondary, and tertiary business objectives. The primary objective was to get users to use what's called the Build and Price tool. Secondary is to get users to request a quote. Request that quote is a lead mechanism that sends those to their dealer network. Then the tertiary objectives is getting users to use the locate a dealer function, get users to explore the TLX and RLX, in this particular project here, those are the models, and get users to view TLX and RLX packages. Those last two, explore and view the packages is all about that goal of engaging users with the Acura brand. That's the connection point there. Getting users to use that Build and Price Tool and request a quote, really, it's about tied to really taking business away from the competition. Because if they can get people to configure a car and figure out, "Oh, this car is going to cost me X, and then actually request a quote, that's the next step of them taking business away from the competition. Yeah. Those are very measurable too, right? Because if someone puts in a quote that's you get a data entry in a database and you can see how many quotes you've received over time, so that's on the quotes mechanisms on their website, so you're hoping that the video drives traffic to the website? Correct. So, the way the videos are placed, there's two things that are put into place here and it's interesting. They live on their official YouTube channel and then they also go on what are called conquest landing pages which are specific landing pages that are optimized for search on Google. Whether a shopper, consumer is on YouTube or if they're in Google and they type in Lexus. Or whatever versus Acura. You're going to actually see that landing page come up in Google and go to the landing page or, if they're on YouTube and they do a similar search, that video is going to pop up. They go to the video, the video drives them to the corresponding landing page. Then eventually, the end destination is the primary website, acura.com, for that specific model that's in the video itself, so that they can engage with those tools, viewing the packages or requesting a quote or build and price. How do you then know where the people come from? Is that also part of the analytics? Yes, it is. So, there's two sets of analytics. There's analytics that are built into YouTube and Acura has access to those analytics through their official channel. Then there's analytics that are available on their landing pages and also on their.com website. So, we get to see those analytics from time to time because we don't manage their primary website nor do we manage their YouTube channel. They have a number of vendors in different divisions and departments and so forth, they're a pretty large organization. So, there's certain things that we have access to and not access to, we have to wait for data to come back in. We get to see search terms that are used. For example, does someone come in by just saying, "Acura RLX comparison video." That's a term that has been used in the report on how people came into the video on YouTube. Or on, say, Google, someone types in "Acura RLX versus Audi A4" or something like that, we get to see that data. Also, one other point of measurement is just how much people are engaging with the videos themselves which is really interesting to see. We don't even need to wait on reporting for that because I think if we go to the latest video that we posted a few weeks ago, I believe it was the RLX versus the Audi A4, I think it's received over 18,000 views so far. It's about probably three times more than what the average number of views have been, for example, the past videos that we've done. I think there's a lot of excitement around the RLX but also that new Audi car as well. So, it is a lot more activity on that one specifically which is pretty interesting. Internally, do you also write the scripts for these videos? Yes, we did. Okay, so you're basically also creating. You're not just designing with content you receive from the client, you're actually creating the content and the storyline yourself. Yes, we work really closely with Acura. They gave us all their competitor set information and their own internal vehicle set information and it's a comparison data. So, we have to take a look at that to what are the hot points where Acura wins, which they do a good job, they really deliver a lot of overall value in their product. So, we have to take that information and then determine what are the talking points, then we have how are we going to tell that story and we have our copywriter write the script and they'll do storyboard, write the script to the storyboard. Then from there, all the pre-production planning that we do to coordinate all the different activities that have to be in place, then the live shoot, then the post-production. We are managing that entire process. What's interesting about this is I tell my students often that in the UX sequence that I lay out, it starts with strategy and then goes into figuring out what the scope is and then how do you structure your information. Eventually, you end up with wireframes and mock up. The early phases like the strategy and some of the scope could lead themselves for a completely different medium. It's like one outcome might be a website, one outcome might be a video, one outcome might be an e-mail campaign, but they all started at the same point thinking of why are we doing this. That's right. That's right. In that place to what we were talking about the very beginning, what's our challenge? What do we need to solve for? Well, then how are we going to do that? So, in this case, there's a challenge with the competitors you know taking in business. So, what are we going to do here? Well, we're not just going to rely only on our website to communicate all the information that's out there. We actually need to intercept shoppers during their shopping experience, during their research consideration stage of their journey and we need to use separate landing pages and we need to use YouTube. We need to use a video as the main storyteller to evoke emotion and to drive motivation in the consumer mindset to consider Acura as the viable purchase. different things that play to your point of what you're saying. So, maybe to wrap that discussion up, then what about the website as the primary? Or your question is the website the main component or is it more important to cater to your social media channels? Or is texting a better way to reach consumers or is it video or is it any other new things? What is the website then now in 2018 represents? Because it used to be the primary thing, everyone needed a website to be built. But now, sometimes, I feel like I talk to clients who are like, "Do we still need a website?" I don't know if you hear that a lot. Actually, I did hear that about a year ago with a new client that we onboarded. I still feel strongly that everyone does need a website, and quite often, it is at the center of a solution when we built what we call integrated solutions with a digital core. The main website, the corporate website is usually at the center but it doesn't need to be, it doesn't it have to be the centerpiece or even at all. It just makes a lot of sense many times to have it that way. But it's really about having that solution in place that is an integrated solution comprised of different components where, say, you have the website, you have your SMS text messaging, you have your e-mail channel, you have your search channel over here and your social media, all working in conjunction with each other and having something that's a center of that capturing data so that data can then be leveraged and disseminated through those various channels in better ways for messaging and creating more resonance and relevance for people. But there's been some things I've seen. I remember a few years back, went to the National American Advertising Federation Conference and they had their awards, shows the Addys. There's a really cool campaign, I think it was the Best of Show. I forget who did it but, oh Oreo cookies and the primary central component of that campaign was Facebook. They just did a really interesting thing with the video and search and in a variety of different channels, but Facebook was the central core component of that campaign. It was really interesting. But in the end of the day, I would assume that you still need UX designers working on those projects, right? [inaudible] UX design, I mean I focus on web design, I think it's still a very relevant medium obviously, but these skills transcend the medium. Absolutely. UX is so critically important to helping define these user experiences. It's become more and more important over the years and it's going to continue to be. Actually, we see the demand for UX designers, people that specialize in UX, has been increasing over the years. They've been able to command higher salaries, higher contracting fees because it's a really, highly sought after skill. It's a critical component. You don't have good UX, your solutions definitely fall apart, the experience is so important. I remember what we have as our tagline, actually it's we create effective brand experiences. So, it's really about that experience and we really value UX highly. I can't emphasize enough how critical UX comes into play. I think that's a perfect way to end as a motivational piece of advice for the students. Craig, thank you so much for your time and it's great talking to you. I wish you well. Thank you so much, Roman. It was a pleasure. Great. Thank you. Thank you.