In the next two sections,
we're going to look at mapping content and mapping interaction. We're going to break into two sections and start out by looking
at how to map content. This will help you
figure out the scope and structure of your app as well as what is
going where in terms of your content. UIUX designers make many
different kinds of content maps. And your content map can look and
feel any way that you want it to. There's no industry standard. So, it's really up to you. And you can see many different
examples if you do a search online. And while how your content map looks and
works is entirely up to you, there are some things that
all good maps have in common. Primarily that your map has to make sense, especially since you might be showing
it to other people to explain your app. So let's look at some qualities
that your content map should have. Your map should have clarity so that
everybody can understand it very quickly. It should have a hierarchy so
we know what's important and what's not. It should have modularity, so similar
items have similar visual representation, and it should have the potential
to grow and expand. So let's make a generic content
map with generic content. We've got a blank page to begin with,
so, we're going to have to decide what's going to go where, what's
going to be at the heart of our map. The logical place to start, would be with our homepage where a lot
of our activity is going to sit. But, since we're making an app, we might
want some kind of a splash page, or some kind of ID page that briefly
occurs before we get to our homepage. Let's say that this three things
that we can do from our home page. These would all be major events or activities and
they'd be connected to our home page. So we can use this similar
shape to describe them. And we can connect them to our
homepage by a series of lines. We don't know what our events are right
now, they're just generic, so we're going to leave them
equal in the hierarchy. So we've set up a system to describe
our content in words and in boxes. And the lines connecting them
imply the kind of activity that happens between those boxes or
what kind of relationship they have. From the arrow, I know that the ID
page pushes me onto the homepage. And from the homepage I know
that the connecting lines mean that I have three
options that I can go to. And I can move between those options
because they're also connected by a line. It's a very simple visual logic, but
one that you need to be consistent with. So here are my sub events that are much
smaller things than the larger events. So I'm going to make those boxes smaller. And connect them to each of the individual
events that I'd have to go through first. So, I'm using scale in my geometric
shapes, different kinds of shapes, and scale in my typography to create a system. And once I've established
the logic of my visual language, I can keep extending it
as I add more content. For instance, one of my sub-events
might lead me to a much larger event, one that's the same as events 1, 2, and 3. So I can show the connection and
how I get to that event, but I can also show its level of
importance by using scale. And that larger event in turn might
lead me to other sub-events and again, I can use scale to indicate
their position in the hierarchy. Because we're making a generic map and
we're using generic terms to describe our content, it's visually a very flat and
even map right now. So even though we know that some things
are more important to others by scale, we have no idea about the content and
how it might be grouped together. And we can use color as a way
to code that content or to code functionality or types of pages. So let's add some color
coding to our content map. Our identity splash page and our home page
are pretty individual stand alone pages, so they can have their own
color to signify that. For the rest of our map we can group
similar content at similar levels of engagement and activity and give those a color coding system
to let us see that hierarchy. Again, it's a very simple technique, but
we're using color as a coding system to let us see similar kinds of event or
content. So if we added pages that
took us away from our app, we might want to code
those all the same color. We could also think about how we use
the lines and arrows between our boxes to signify connections or
signify traveling to another space. Because we're designing an app,
a lot of our activity might take place on one screen with pop up menus
sitting on top of a background. And we can show that by only using the
arrows when we travel to another screen entirely. If we had a website with the same content,
it might look the same, but because it's on multiple screens we have
a lot more arrows indicating travelling to a lot more screens. We're looking at a simple
diagramming system here. It's all to do with mapping and planning
and being able to think about your content without actually
making any of that content. So far we've looked at a generic
structure with generic content. Let's see what happens when we get
rid of the generic content and start to actually map out a real idea for
an app. Let's start with our ID page and our home
page, but let's use one of the ideas we looked at earlier which is an app
to help you find a lost pet. We're going to use the same structure that
we looked at with our generic map, but we're going to shape it and
change it to fit this content. So let's say that our app is
going to do three main things, three large events or
activities for my lost pet app. Those three things might be that I
would want to search for a lost pet, that I might want to post information
about a pet that I'd lost in the hope that somebody else
would see it and find my pet. Or that I might want to post
information about a pet that I'd found in the hopes that I was going
to reunite it with its owner. All of these activities will be
happening on one page on my homescreen. So I might think about what
kind of page should that be. It would make sense to me for
that to be a map so that I could look in the area that I wanted to look
if I'm searching for something. And I could see the area
that animals were found or perhaps where animals
could be lost as well. So I'm developing my content,
organizing my content, and shaping my app all at the same time
through this process of mapping. As I expand my map,
I'm expanding the content. If I wanted to search for my lost pet,
I might think about how would I do that? I'd need to enter a name, maybe think about searching by species,
or by date, or by description. Some of my choices might
have some categories, so after I pick the species I
might need to pick a breed, or I might need to add more
information that describes my pet. Just like our generic content map, a lot of this activity would
all be happening on one screen. And we've decided that it's going
to be based around a map so we're going to have to come
up with another idea for a structure that's going to allow us to
float information on top of that map. So we might need a side menu or a separate
field to house that extra information. And if we're going to do a search, we're going to need somewhere to
see our search results as well. So, as we're mapping out our content,
we're also thinking about structure, and we're also developing
the functionality of our app. In real life, you might make many
different content maps with different emphasis or with different structures or
different ways of showing your idea. Once you have a structure that
you like and that's working, you can start to add additional
information into your contact map. So I might add some outside sites
that I might go to from my app. I might want to to post to
Facebook about my lost pet, or connect to the city pound perhaps. You can also fill out all the places
that content is going to exist. So, for every section in your app, you
show all the different pieces, and options that are going to be in that section, and
this will change from section to section. So it will help you develop your content,
and develop your structure. So, for my app, searching for a pet might
have a slightly different structure to how I would post information about
a pet that I'd lost for instance. Or I might need a photo and
more detailed information. As we're mapping out
all of the content for our app, the one thing that we're
not doing is thinking about design. We're not really making
any design decisions. We're just creating a structure and
a framework and making decisions about content. We're looking at what goes where and
how it might be organized. And once we've figured that out,
we can begin to think about how a user might go through this content and
experience this content. We're going to start to think about
how to map the user's interaction and that might have an effect
on our content map.