In the last class, we looked at mapping content. In this class, we're going to shift focus slightly and look at mapping interaction. There's a lot of overlap between those two kinds of maps. If your app is simple, you might only make one map and show both of these things in one map. But we're going to split them up and look at them separately. The interaction map shows how the user travels through your content. So, it's much more like a flowchart in a lot of ways. While there's overlap, it sometimes has a slightly different visual language to its form as well. Just like our content map, your interaction map can look and work however you want as long as it makes sense, but it needs to share some of the same qualities as your content map as well. Like any map or diagram, it needs to have clarity, so you can understand it quite quickly and easily, and it needs to have a hierarchy so that you visually understand which things are important and which things are less important, and it needs to have modularity, so that you can repeat the same kind of forms for the same kind of content or in this case, for the same kind of actions, and it also needs to have the possibility to expand or grow because your app or website might change or grow itself. So, let's look at an interaction map that has generic content and generic form. To avoid confusion, let's call it the flowchart of user pathways. For a simple app like ours, there's going to be a lot of overlap with our content map. So, if we go back to our generic content map, we can use that as the basis for our user interaction flowchart. We'd still start out with the homepage, but let's put that up at the top and show what our immediate choices are as we travel through this information. A user might choose from event one, two, or three and then might choose some events from any of those main events. We can also show the places we might go off-site from our app, just like we did with our generic content map. But one of the big differences here is that it's very hard for us to create a generic flowchart of interaction. You can't map the user's path with generic content because the user doesn't know what they're making a decision about. We need the content to be in there so the user has something to make a decision about because those decisions are going to determine the path that they're going to take, and that's what we're interested in here, pathways between events, pathways that the user is going to potentially follow. So, let's put some content in that. Let's use our lost pet example again. We decided that there will be three main things that our user could do from their homepage, and the user probably chooses one of those things to do. Our content map helped us develop the idea that we were going to have an actual GPS map before the user made any of these decisions. So, we should put that into our user flowchart to see how it affects the decision-making process. We can give that a different kind of form on our flowchart to show that it's working with a different kind of information. It might be reading the user's GPS location, for instance. With the user interaction flowchart, we're asking much more how do you get from step one to step two. The map might automatically read our location, but you might also need to enter in your zip code or address. We can show this visually in an either/or kind of way. From the location map, we either enter our location to get to our activities or it reads our location automatically and go straight to those activities. Once the user chooses the main activity, it's less about showing us what the options are that they can choose from, and more about showing how they travel through those options. If I wanted to post information about my lost animal, I might choose a certain order for the activities and have them follow one, one from the other. So, I'd have to visually show that. At the end of that passage of entering information, there'd be a different kind of interaction. The user would have to either confirm or post that information. So, I might need to slightly differentiate visually one activity from another, and I need to show where the user's path took them after that. They probably head back to the location map where they could see their own post or perhaps engage in another activity. Remember, we're mapping the user's interaction with our app here. We're not just mapping the content. So, if I didn't want to post what I'd entered, I need a way to get back and edit that material. Once again, I'm thinking more about the pathways and travelling through the content than thinking about defining the content itself. So, I find it quite useful to have a content map and have a user interaction flowchart. The two of them do inform each other and have a lot of similarities. So, let's make this the same as our content map and add our set of links to outside places, and just like our content map, let's use color to reinforce information within our diagram. We can use color to show different kinds of content in the same way we did before, so, light blue here for our main activities, and pink for the sites that are away from our app. We can build a relationship between color and shape as well. Here, all of our rectangles are places where the user has to enter information, but the yellow rectangles are places that are much more important. So, we've created a similarity, but also a hierarchy within our diagram, and that hierarchy is about the user's interaction not necessarily about the content. Here, we have three main areas where the user can carry out an activity. Let's see what happens if we flesh those out a little bit more. It's already getting quite complicated. It's starting to get crowded and might not even fit on the page. This is where the modular or expandable part of our diagram really comes into play. Now I can shrink all of this information down and add other information that's going to feel and look exactly the same. As I add more information, I also have to adjust my system because I want my logic and my hierarchy to be consistent. So, I could think about being consistent with scale, coloring, with position of the elements, with the arrangement of them as well. What my flowchart is really doing here is mapping out all the possible decisions that a user could make, all the possible pathways that they could take. So, I'm going to have to layout quite a lot of information into this one diagram. It's useful to do that in a modular and consistent fashion. So, my user flow for posting lost and posting found are very similar right now. So, I could start by duplicating them and making them exactly the same because there's a little visual inconsistency right now. So, sometimes, even just tidying up what your diagram looks like and how you're representing an interaction can really help your diagram make visual sense. As you're mapping how the user travels through your content, you also have to make sure that you have the right content in the right places. For instance, when I'm searching for my pet, I might not want to enter all of the same information as when I'm posting something either lost or found. If my app doesn't work with photo recognition, there's no point me uploading a photograph to do my search. The date when I lost my animal might not be so important and I might not need to put my contact information up there yet because I'm just searching. So, as you can see, as I'm figuring out my user interaction, it's having an effect on my content. So, my content map and my user flowchart are interwoven together and they affect one another, but they show slightly different information. So, when I'm searching for a lost pet, for instance, in my flowchart, I want to show how the user goes through that experience, what information they enter and when. So, here I want a diagram that they could choose between species' name and description and whichever one they choose, it would come up with a set of results. So, while there's overlap with content, I'm much more concerned with the arrows and the pathways that are connecting these different pieces of content. Again, showing the path that the user might possibly take, you always have to be thinking what next, what's the next step. So, after I've got my results, where would I go next? I'd probably either go back and do another search if I didn't get the results I wanted to or if I found my pet, I'd want to confirm that somehow and maybe contact someone. To reiterate one more time, what we're really doing here is mapping interaction. We're showing how the user travels through our content in the different paths that they can take. But as with our content map, we're not making any design decisions yet. We could take this framework or structure and develop it in any number of different directions. While it might look and feel different, its structure would be the same because while we're mapping out these interactive pathways, we're also mapping out the structure of our site. So, as I mentioned, there are connections between our interaction flowchart and our content map. There are similarities between the two things, but they focus on different kinds of information and experiences and they don't actually contain the same information. If you think about our attempts, even from early on, to separate UI from UX so we could examine them more closely, we're kind of doing the same thing here. Our user flowchart is trying to envision the experience without any finished visuals. It's focusing more on the UX part of the equation. While we might not be making any form now, what we are doing is thinking creatively and inventively and shaping the structure that our form is eventually going to take.