One of the more fundamental psychological fears that most humans share is the fear of being lost. Getting lost on a freeway or inside an airport or in the woods is not the idea of fun for most people. And we probably all have a story of getting lost as children and the terror that we felt, not to mention our parents. When we are designing websites, we should make sure that people don't get lost in them. Because if they do get lost, or even if they are just a little confused of where they are, it will trigger a potent negative reaction and the usability of our site suffers. So here are some interface strategies to answer the user's question, where am I? And prevent them from feeling lost. In this video, I'll talk about the following, site identification, page titles, you are here indicators, breadcrumbs, links back to the homepage and consistency. As an example, we'll use one of the wireframes from the last video. It's a secondary page called our team located in the about section. Now by site identification, I mean that the user should be able to tell at all times simply what site they are on. And one of the best ways to communicate this is to have the site's logo or the site's title in the header on every page. The convention is to have it in the upper left corner and I would recommend that location as a starting point for your design investigations. We'll again use websites from the last video as real life examples. Here you can see that there aren't any surprises. The logos of the organizations are placed safe and securely in the upper left corner. It grounds the user's experience to know where they are at all times. In UX, no surprises is usually a good thing. Another important way finding element is the page title. Let the users know what page they are on. Here in this wireframe, we can see that we envision the page title our team to be presented clearly and prominently towards the top of the page. The Substance website does a good job of prominently displaying the title of the article on the article's detailed pages. The same on the Project Archive for the project title. And here on the Pasadena Conservatory website, the title of the page for the Strings Department and the title of a page in the About section on the Order website. Let's say you're looking at a map in a shopping center or on your mobile phone. One of the most useful things is knowing your current location in relation to this map. Without that, you won't be able to navigate properly. On such maps, you're looking for the you are here symbol. Websites benefit from such indicators as well, though you will probably not use this icon. In your navigation, highlight the link of the section that the visitor is currently visiting. In this wireframe, you know that we are currently in the About section since that link in the primary navigation is highlighted. Furthermore, you also see that we are on the Our Team page in the secondary menu since that link is also differently formatted from the rest. Let me emphasize an important point. You might argue that a user will have clicked on the About and Our Team links just a few moments before, so how could they already have forgotten what section they are in? Well, let's assume two other scenarios. One, they did a search and landed on the Our Team page as the first page they ever visited on your site. It's helpful for them to see right away where they landed. Scenario number two, they went to your site, navigated to this page, and were distracted by an incoming email or message. Then, after half an hour, they go back to their browser and have forgotten where they were. Again, nice to help them out by highlighting the place they are at. Here are the ways that our example sites deal with this. Substance by having a small square next to the active link. The Project Archive uses an underline. The Pasadena Conservatory uses color. And the order, well, the order doesn't have a You Are Here indicator, but that's okay because the order employs something called breadcrumbs. I can imagine that the word breadcrumbs was inspired by the original Grimm's fairy tale of Hansel and Gretel. In the story, when the siblings are left alone in the woods, they try to find their way back home by looking for the breadcrumbs they had strewn along their path earlier. That didn't work out so well for them, damn those birds who ate the bread, but breadcrumbs for websites are a super helpful tool for your users. They indicate the path that a user has traveled along the information architecture of the site. Or if a user landed on this page some other way, breadcrumbs communicate how this page fits in with the content hierarchy. In this example, the breadcrumb situates the Our Team page as part of the About section. And the very first page in the hierarchy is of course the Home page, which is listed first in the breadcrumb. When a user clicks on any of the links in this trail, they will go to that page. So far, we've only looked at sites that had a secondary level, maybe a tertiary level, but you can probably imagine content structures that go a lot deeper. The deeper your content structure, the more helpful breadcrumbs become. Here are some other examples of breadcrumbs. The Substance page that we've been looking at has three parent pages, Issue 162, then Journal, then Home. Here's the breadcrumb for the Pasadena Conservatory page, and the Order page. And on the Project Archive, you'll notice that no breadcrumbs were implemented. The site structure is much simpler than the other three examples, so we decided it wasn't necessary. It's a good idea to give your users an easy way to get back to the Home page. Now, it's a convention that the logo of the site will link back home. And on many sites, that's the only link back to the Home page. If you want to be more explicit about how to get back to the Home page, you could add Home as a link to the primary navigation. But as I said, most sites get away without doing this. Plus, if you have breadcrumbs, you already have another way pointing back home. Most of our example sites don't include a Home link in the primary navigation, but all of their logos do link back to the Home page. And on the Project Archive site, which doesn't use breadcrumbs, we have an explicit link to the Home page. Finally, one overarching strategy of helping your users to orient themselves is to be consistent. Have your logo on every page of your site in the same location. Have your page title be consistent. Use a consistent way of indicating which link is currently active. Don't move or unexpectedly change your primary navigation from page to page. Have breadcrumbs on every page. And allow users to link back home by clicking your logo on every page. It's instructive to see what happens when wayfinding strategies are not implemented successfully. Let's take a look at a website for the painter Edward Munch, which I created in the early 2000s. On the Home page, we see the main links in an expressive typographic composition running vertically. That feels very dated today, but it was quite common at the time. The navigation is also repeated on the bottom, horizontally. When clicking on one of the links, we notice that the navigation works differently on secondary pages. The navigation is now running across the top and the links on the bottom disappear. We do have a page title, a link back home, and on the secondary navigation, an indication of the active page. But something that doesn't work at all is what happens with the primary navigation. We are on the Gallery page, but Gallery has been removed from the navigation. That made sense to me at the time, since we are on the Gallery page, why even show the link in the navigation? There wasn't really space for it anyway. In practice, this impedes usability because the navigation lacks predictability and consistency. When I click on News, the News link is gone. When clicking on Fun Stuff, removes that link. The navigation is constantly changing, creating a feeling of disorientation, of being lost. And our users being lost is what we, as user experience designers, want to avoid. Of course, challenging the viewer can be an artistic statement. I'll leave you with a fun excursion to another very old website that showcases the exact opposite of constructive wayfinding. The site is Yvette's Bridal. And no, I didn't design this one. It's a bit of a piece of art though. A crazy wonderland of late 90s inspired web design with no clear navigational hierarchy. A user seems to have no chance for any sane navigation. Now, I'm not saying that this isn't intriguing or interesting. It does bring a smile to my face, but more in a, this is so bad, it's really good sort of way. As a piece of user experience, let's say you're actually trying to buy a wedding gown, it's an utter failure and can make us appreciate a well-designed usable website.