After learning how to define strategy in the lessons last week, our focus now shifts to determining the scope of our sites. So, that's the second step of the UX process. Remember the distinction of moving from very abstract concerns to more and more concrete concerns. I mentioned before that in the beginning of the process, we are not at all concerned with the final shape of the site. We're dealing with much more higher level of questions instead. You could even argue that at this point in our process, at the beginning of the scope phase, we could be working on a brochure, or a book, or a video as our final deliverable instead of a website. In fact, one result of the previous strategy phase might be the realization that a website is not the right answer for the problems we're trying to solve. Be that as it may, this course is about website design and the further we get along the UX process, the more we will be concerned with the final shape of our websites. So, let's jump into talking about scope. Here's a fancy way of expressing what this step is all about. Strategy becomes scope when user needs and client needs are translated into specific requirements for content and functionality. Here's a more diagrammatic view of what's happening. You see that the idea here is that, the user needs and the client needs that we established earlier, directly inform the content and functionality requirements of the site. The strategy phase, we mostly answere the question of, why are we creating something? Now, the outline of scope phase is using the insights gained to answer the question, what are we building? If you're, let's say, working with filmmakers who just finished a movie, the why of the strategy phase could be summarized in a very simplified way, as promoting the new movie. Now, the what are we building question, would be answered with specific requirements for content and functionality. Something like a website that includes information about the movie, the cast, screenings, press articles, the trailer, and lets people sign up for a mailing list. At the end of the outline of scope phase, the specific requirements will be simply listed in two columns. One list for content, and one list for functionality. We'll talk more about the difference of these two categories in a second. But let me reiterate why it's important to define requirements in the first place. Sure, it's good to know what you are building, but equally important is the question of what you are not building. There are many constraints on a project, like the timeline, and the budgets, and technology constraints. Knowing what the site will not be, will help you focus your energy on what you are actually building. There shouldn't be any unpleasant surprises in the end when your client might realize that a complex component they were hoping for is not part of the site. Defining your specific requirements for content and functionality in detail early on, will ensure that everyone's on the same page about what to expect