In this segment, we're going to continue to look at working with wireframes. We're going to focus a little bit more on consistency and details. We've spent quite a lot of time making wireframes. So now, we're going to make more wireframes, because wireframes are really important. But we'll be making some design decisions too, we'll be trying to make our wireframes consistent and that consistency is in areas of interaction, navigation, functionality, logic, and design, and these are all areas that we've looked at in previous classes. We might have to make a number of wireframe screens to be able to compare them before we can get to this kind of consistency. Let's look at some of the wireframe screens that we built in the last class. We had three different options for how our menu might appear over the top of the map. If these windows were all having the same function searching for a lost pet, they'd just be design options. They'd be variations of the same thing, and if that was the case, I'd argue that the middle one was the least functional. It doesn't do a good job of getting out of the way of the map, but it also doesn't do a good job of forming a window where I can flick through different paths. It seems the most dysfunctional. So, let's see what happens when we take that away and we change the function of the screens. Let's look at our wireframe design for our home screen and compare that with our search screen. You can see that our home screen is very similar to the search screen on the left, but different from the one on the right. Obviously, we don't need two different designs for a search screen, we have to pick one of them. So, how are we going to decide which one is our home screen and which one is our search screen? One way to decide which search screen to use, would be to think about how the user is going to use these screens. What does the user's priority going to be? On the left, it feels more like you're searching for a specific pet, because you're able to see those pet's names on the map. Whereas on the right, it's more visually driven. The pet's photo is larger and you're more likely to be swiping through a number of different photos. On our home screen, the user's priority is browsing, it's much more of a general multifunctional map. So, we have different functions here, but everything looks pretty much the same. So, the question is, is it too much the same or is it the right level of consistency? You want your screens to look like they belong to the same family, but you don't want them to look exactly the same. If everything is too consistent, the experience is very flat and that's a turn off for the user. If we look at our search for screen on our home screen, they're very similar. One could argue that this could create user confusion, the user might not know which part of the app they're operating in. So, you may need a graphic device such as coloring or labeling to accentuate that differentiation. If we keep our home screen and pair it with the other search screen design, we can see that these are different enough that they look like they have different functions, but they look related. They work as siblings and the benefit of this is that the user knows that they're in your app because it has a clear identity. But they also know that they're pursuing a different activity or a different action. So, as you're making different screens for different areas of your app, you should try and get the balance between difference and consistency. Just write two different and you'll lose your apps identity, to much the same and you'll create a flat and boring experience. It's useful to go back to our sitemap and look at how we color-coded different areas or sections. You could think of the sections as being siblings. My section that deals with logging in, might look very different from my sections that deal with searching. But my post lost them post fans sections, will be pretty much the same and I want all of my screens to have some visual continuity, so they feel like they all belong together in one app. We've looked a little bit at consistency, so now let's look at details. We're actually looking at detail in exactly the same areas: interaction, navigation, functionality, logic, and design. Just keep in mind, that we're not talking about details of the interface design here. We're not quite at the stage where we're going to refine the form of the interface, we'll be doing that soon though. So, let's take this same wireframe and render it in an even simpler form. That way, the formal design elements can be ignored a little bit. As we've done many times before, let's break the interface down into all of its pieces. When you do that, you can ask yourself if each aspect of the interface is working to its best potential, from large to small. Because we're working with wireframes, are not investing a lot of time in the form of the interface, we can pull those interface elements around quite quickly and easily and we can make options, and then decide which ones are better. We could decide the proportions and size of our bottom menu, we could decide that we don't need arrows to travel through things here because the information is above in the map. We could also decide we don't need to close this particular window, we can just slide it up and down. In our map area up above, we could see what happens if we had icons or symbols for our lost animals. So, even though we're not getting caught up in design details, we're still making some decisions about design. So, when we're looking at consistency and details, we are looking at these two areas in both our wireframe map and in the beginnings of our user interface design. The wireframe map makes it easy to compare screen to screen. Whereas if we take any individual screen, we can look at the user interface design and start to develop that a little bit more. When we put both of these things back together, we're heading towards a more finished static screens, and these are the screens that we're going to use to build our digital prototype.