Here is one question that looms large now that we are addressing the layout of the screen during the wireframing phase. What is the size of the screen? Meaning, what's the size of the canvas we are working with? If you think about other media, the size is often decided first. For printed pieces, like books and magazines and posters and billboards, we often get the dimension as part of the design brief. Even videos have a predefined size. Now for websites, the question of size is a whole lot more complicated. And I don't think it's too much of a spoiler to get right to the point. Websites do not have one specific size, since they must work on a variety of screen sizes and devices. Websites should be designed to fluidly respond to any viewport size and look and function well no matter if you're on a tiny smartphone or a giant desktop computer screen. Instead of one size, we have to deal with many, many sizes. As a quick side note, it's interesting to mention that before the internet, there was one medium that routinely had to deal with the issue of multiple canvas sizes. Album covers. For a while, new music came out on different physical formats, and album cover art had to work for vinyl, CDs, and for tapes. Designers had to find graphical solutions for these different dimensions. In a way, we are looking at some early responsive design in these examples. But even then, there were only a few sizes that had to be addressed. For websites, we're dealing with a vast and ever-expanding list of devices and sizes. Some designers can be frustrated by the lack of clarity here. And some might claim it to be a limitation of the medium that there is no concrete canvas size to design for. It makes designing websites much more complicated, for sure, but it's also what makes the web so unique and interesting. And instead of a limitation, it's a real advantage for users. It's many of the other media that have a limitation. Try reading a printed newspaper in a crowded bus or subway, and you'll appreciate the fact that the website version of the newspaper will gracefully morph to fit the palm-sized device that you can easily hold in a tight space. Another example. The same user can access the same website from a variety of devices, depending on context. You can start researching a recipe for dinner while at work on your desktop computer, then continue on your smartphone while you're shopping for the ingredients, and finally use your tablet device in your kitchen while cooking. Websites are that flexible. And yet, things used to be different. They used to be much simpler. In the early days of the web, people accessed websites from desktop computers and laptops. And that was it. And for a while, the convention was to use 960 pixels for the width of websites. That was the lowest common denominator and worked for most monitors out there. For screens that were bigger, there would be empty space on the left and the right, with the site's content sitting in the middle of the browser. And if the browser window got smaller, the website would be cut off and the user would have to scroll horizontally. But again, most screens were big enough to show 960 pixels across, so designers used that as a standard. There were even entire frameworks and templates for the 960-pixel grid. When designers started on a new site, they knew exactly how wide to make their canvas. But then this happened. In 2007, Apple released the first iPhone. And this phone was in part so successful because it had a web browser that did a pretty good job allowing users to surf websites that were designed for the desktop. A website would be displayed very small so it would fit on the screen, and then you could pinch and zoom to make a certain section big enough to be legible. But that was far from an optimal user experience. Apple quickly noticed how native apps that were designed for a small screen were so much easier to use than legacy websites. A few years later, Ethan McCodd wrote his very influential article entitled Responsive Web Design, in which he laid out a philosophical and technical case for making websites that work well no matter the size of the screen. And the term that Ethan McCodd coined is what we still use today, responsive web design. The blog post is still online, by the way, on the website alistapart, and I would urge you to read it. Not only is it still a meaningful manifesto for web designers, but it's also an interesting and important historical document for the field of web design. For a while, responsive design was an add-on service that web designers offered for clients who cared enough to create an optimized mobile experience. But today it's the default way of creating websites. Every website simply must adjust seamlessly to whatever screen size they are confronted with. But what does all of this mean for our wireframes? If we don't know the screen size of our users, which size should we mark up? My recommendation is to create two sizes, a small one for the mobile phone experience and a bigger one that explores how the site will look on desktop browsers. For the mobile size, I recommend a width of around 375 pixels, which is the width of many smaller smartphones. I say around 375 pixels for a reason, because the precise width doesn't really matter, because there are so many different phones out there. The smallest phones, by the way, are 320 pixels wide, but these phones are starting to be quite rare these days. For the desktop version, use a width of around 1000 pixels. That's around the size of a smaller laptop or tablet. If you're concerned about how specific design elements will behave on intermediate sizes or on really big sizes, think about giant desktop screens, then you can mark up additional sizes. But you don't need to mark up every conceivable screen size, that would be a fool's errand, there are just too many possibilities. Okay, we've been talking a lot about the width of websites so far. You might ask, what about the height? How tall should you make your wireframes? The answer is simple, make them as tall as necessary to fit all the content of the page you are designing. We don't know the height of the user's viewport either, but that's less of a challenge. Remember, websites can be easily scrolled vertically. So when you are looking at a wireframe like this, it's assumed that the user will only ever see part of the page design at a time. Don't be afraid of designing websites that are long and need to be scrolled. The last issue I want to address is the question of which size, mobile or desktop, you should mark up first. There are different opinions about this and to be honest for me in my own work, I often start with the desktop size. But there are many who advocate for an approach called mobile first. And their arguments are quite persuasive. If you focus on the smallest screens first, you will necessarily have to focus on the most essential content and functionality because the available space is so restricted. One thing is for sure, don't think about the mobile experience as something secondary. Stats tell us that nowadays the majority of your users will likely visit your site on a mobile device.